

===== PAGE 1 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 23, NO. 3, MARCH 2024
2123
Meta Reinforcement Learning for Multi-Task
Ofﬂoading in Vehicular Edge Computing
Penglin Dai
, Member, IEEE, Yaorong Huang, Kaiwen Hu, Xiao Wu
, Member, IEEE,
Huanlai Xing
, Member, IEEE, and Zhaofei Yu
, Member, IEEE
Abstract—Mobile edge computing has been a promising solution
to enable real-time service in vehicular networks. However, due to
high dynamics of mobile environment and heterogeneous features
of vehicular services, traditional expert-based or learning-based
strategieshastoupdatehandcraftedparametersorretrainlearning
model, which leads to intolerant overhead. Therefore, this paper in-
vestigates the problem of multi-task ofﬂoading (MTO), where there
existmultipleofﬂoadingscenarioswithvaryingparameters,suchas
tasktopology,resourcerequirementandtransmission/computation
capability. The objective is to design a uniﬁed solution to minimize
task execution time under different MTO scenarios. Accordingly,
we develop a Seq2seq-based Meta Reinforcement Learning algo-
rithm for MTO (SMRL-MTO). Speciﬁcally, a bidirectional gated
recurrent units integrated with attention mechanism is designed
to determine ofﬂoading action by encoding sequential ofﬂoading
actions and showing different preferences to different parts of input
sequence. Particularly, a meta reinforcement learning framework
is designed based on model-agnostic meta learning, which trains
a meta policy ofﬂine and fast adapts to new MTO scenario within
a few training steps. Finally, we conduct performance evaluation
based on task generator DAGGEN and realistic vehicular traces,
which shows that the SMRL-MTO reduces task execution time by
11.36% on average compared with greedy algorithm.
Index
Terms—Meta
reinforcement
learning,
multi-task
ofﬂoading, vehicular edge computing, multi-task dependency,
Seq2seq model.
I. INTRODUCTION
M
OBILE edge computing (MEC) has been a promising so-
lutiontoenablereal-timevehicularservicesbyproviding
Manuscript received 29 October 2022; revised 3 February 2023; accepted 17
February 2023. Date of publication 23 February 2023; date of current version
5 February 2024. This work was supported in part by the National Natural
Science Foundation of China under Grant 62172342, in part by the Natural
Science Foundation of Hebei Province, China under Grant F2022105003, in
part by the Key Project of Science and Technology Research Program of
Chongqing Education Commission of China under Grant KJZD-K202202901,
in part by the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities under
Grant 2682022JX007, in part by the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation
funded project under Grants 2019M660245 and 2020T130547. Recommended
for acceptance by Dr. D. Pompili. (Corresponding author: Penglin Dai.)
Penglin Dai, Yaorong Huang, Kaiwen Hu, Xiao Wu, and Huanlai Xing
are with the School of Computing and Artiﬁcial Intelligence, South-
west Jiaotong University, Chengdu 611756, China, and with the En-
gineering Research Center of Sustainable Urban Intelligent Transporta-
tion, Ministry of Education, Chengdu 611756, China, and also with the
Tangshan Institute of Southwest Jiaotong University, Tangshan 063000,
China (e-mail: penglindai@swjtu.edu.cn; huangyaorong@my.swjtu.edu.cn;
kaiwenhu_swjtu@163.com; wuxiaohk@gmail.com; hxx@home.swjtu.edu.cn).
Zhaofei Yu is with the Institute for Artiﬁcial Intelligence, Peking University,
Beijing 100871, China (e-mail: yzf714@126.com).
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TMC.2023.3247579
computation, communication and caching resources at network
edge. In these vehicular services, such as augmented reality
service and vehicular navigation application, mobile vehicles
usually generate computation-intensive tasks, where each task
is modeled as directed acyclic graph (DAG). Due to the limited
local computation capability, vehicles have to partially or fully
ofﬂoad tasks to nearby MEC server via wireless communication
for reducing computation time. However, mobile vehicles still
suffer from serious delay in MEC-based architecture due to
the following observations. First, different vehicular tasks have
different requirements, which cannot be satisﬁed by a single ded-
icateddesignedstrategy.Second,thecapabilitiesofMECservers
are heterogeneous and vary with different scenarios, which
easily causes unbalanced workload distribution. Therefore, it
is still non-trivial to design an effective ofﬂoading mechanism
adaptive to diverse service demands of vehicular applications
simultaneously.
In the last decades, great efforts have been paid on task of-
ﬂoadinginvehicularnetworks.Someresearchersinvestigatedon
different types of service architectures. [1], [2] studied the cloud-
based vehicular networks, where the computation-intensive
tasks generated by vehicles can be wirelessly ofﬂoaded to remote
cloud server for reducing computation time. However, frequent
information exchange between terminal users and cloud server
brings great backhaul trafﬁc and causes excessive transmission
delay. To reduce transmission overhead, [3], [4] proposed the
MEC-based vehicular networks, where vehicular tasks can be di-
rectly ofﬂoaded to the nearby MEC servers deployed at wireless
infrastructures, such as Base Stations (BSs) and Roadside Units
(RSUs). To further improve system performance, [5], [6] studied
the MEC/Cloud hybrid service architecture, where mobile vehi-
cles, MEC and cloud servers, are cooperated to satisfy dynamic
resource requirements of vehicular tasks. Further, to fully exploit
the heterogeneous resources, some researchers developed differ-
ent types of task ofﬂoading mechanisms in vehicular networks.
[6], [7] developed several heuristic or approximation algorithms
based on the assumption that the knowledge of tasks and MEC
servers is known in advance. [8], [9] applied reinforcement
learning-based algorithms to explore optimal solution without
knowing environmental information. However, the features of
both vehicular task and environment vary a lot with different
service scenarios in vehicular networks. In particular, some
vehicles may not fully reveal the features of tasks as well as other
critical information during data ofﬂoading due to the privacy
protection. Further, these works only considered a simple task
1536-1233 © 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD DE VIGO. Downloaded on March 28,2024 at 13:24:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 2 =====
2124
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 23, NO. 3, MARCH 2024
ofﬂoading scenario, where the resource competition between
multiple vehicles and the workload balance between multiple
wireless channels as well as processors are neglected.
Based on the above motivation, we investigate multi-task
ofﬂoading (MTO) problem in vehicular edge computing (VEC),
where there exist multiple task ofﬂoading scenarios charac-
terized by varying features of both vehicular tasks and MEC
servers. Speciﬁcally, the tasks generated from mobile vehicles
are computation-intensive and abstracted as a directed acyclic
graph (DAG) and divided into multiple dependent subtasks with
different resource requirements, where each subtask can be
processed only when the computation server receives the data
of subtask itself and the output data from its parent subtasks.
In this paper, the subtask is the basic ofﬂoading unit and can
be either processed by local vehicle or wirelessly ofﬂoaded to
nearby MEC server. Compared with local vehicles, the MEC
server has more powerful computation capabilities and owns
multiple wireless subchannels and processors, which undertakes
overloaded tasks from the vehicles for effectively reducing task
executiontime. However, it is still challengingtodesignauniﬁed
ofﬂoading strategy fast adaptive to the MTO scenarios with
varying parameter settings. First, the task proﬁles, including
task topology and resource requirement, are always location-
aware and time varying, which is difﬁcult to infer task execu-
tion time. Second, the resource competition between multiple
vehicles may cause unbalanced workload distribution among
heterogeneous channels and processors and result in excessive
transmission or computation time.
Toresolvetheaboveissues,wedevelopaSeq2seq-basedMeta
Reinforcement Learning algorithm for MTO (SMRL-MTO),
where the seq2seq model and the meta reinforcement learning
(MRL)areusedforpredictingtaskexecutiontimeandfastadapt-
ing to new ofﬂoading scenario, respectively. The contributions
of this work are outlined as follows.
r We formulate a problem of multi-task ofﬂoading (MTO)
in the VEC system, where vehicular tasks are modeled as
DAG-based graphs and MEC servers are characterized by
heterogeneous transmission and computation capabilities.
Particularly, the features of both vehicular tasks and MEC
servers are location-aware and time-varying. The task of-
ﬂoading model consists of transmission and computation,
where the detail procedure are managed by multiple wire-
less subchannels and computation processors, respectively.
The objective of the MTO is to derive a uniﬁed solution
to minimize task execution time under different scenarios
with varying parameter settings simultaneously.
r We develop the Seq2seq-based Meta Reinforcement
Learning for MTO (SMRL-MTO), which can efﬁciently
ﬁnd an ofﬂoading policy adaptive to a new environment.
Speciﬁcally, we design a Seq2seq model by combining
a Bi-GRU with attention mechanism, which explores the
relationships between subtasks by encoding sequential of-
ﬂoading actions and makes ofﬂoading action by showing
different preferences to different parts of input sequence.
Further, a meta-learning framework consists of local gra-
dient update and meta training are designed, where meta
training obtains the meta policy by ofﬂine training and local
gradient update achieves a dedicated ofﬂoading policy by
running meta ofﬂoading policy with a few epochs.
r We build a comprehensive simulation model by integrat-
ing realistic vehicular traces, open-source DAG generator
DAGGEN and the VEC model. The simulation results
demonstrate the effectiveness and the adaptiveness of the
proposed algorithm compared to three competitive algo-
rithms in a wide range of service scenarios.
The remainder of this article is organized as follows. In
Section III, the system model is presented. In Section IV, we
formulate the MTO problem. In Section V, we present the al-
gorithm design. Section VI gives a comprehensive performance
evaluation. Finally, Section VII concludes this article.
II. RELATED WORK
Recently, many efforts have been paid on investigating the ser-
vice architecture of task ofﬂoading in vehicular networks, which
are generally classiﬁed into three categories: cloud-based, MEC-
based and hybrid architectures. In the cloud-based architecture,
researchers considered how to ofﬂoad the task from the mobile
vehicles to the cloud server to reduce the computation load of
local vehicular terminal. [10] proposed a dynamic programming
with randomization algorithm that iteratively improves the of-
ﬂoading decision vector to ofﬂoad as many tasks as possible
to the cloud server. [11] designed a dynamic method to ofﬂoad
speciﬁc vehicle application components to the cloud through
dynamic decision-making under variable network conditions for
reducing the response time. However, as the vehicular terminal
is far away from the cloud server, the task suffers from excessive
transmission delay during ofﬂoading procedure. In order to over-
come this issue, some researchers proposed the MEC-based ser-
vice architecture, where the MEC server is deployed at network
edge for processing real-time vehicular tasks without accessing
to the cloud. [12] designed an MEC-MEC cooperation architec-
ture and designed a non-cooperative game-theoretic strategy to
realize the MEC grouping for workload balance between MEC
servers. [13] designed an MEC-cloud cooperation architecture
and achieved the load balance among MEC and cloud servers
by making different ofﬂoading decisions for tasks with differ-
ent resource demand and delay sensitivity. In addition, some
researchers considered to utilize the computation resource of
vehicle. [14] proposed a V2V hybrid multi-hop edge computing
ofﬂoading algorithm to ofﬂoad the tasks to the vehicle out of the
coverage of RSU for reducing overloaded issue. [15] studied a
mobility-aware computation ofﬂoading algorithm to reduce the
total cost by comparing the average cost of running task in local
vehicle and MEC server, respectively. [16] studied a scenario
where the tasks generated by sensor device are ofﬂoaded to
one of the local vehicle, MEC server or cloud based on a deep
learning model, which effectively reduces energy consumption
and delay.
Further, researchers investigated on the mechanisms of com-
putation ofﬂoading and resource allocation for improving the
ofﬂoading performance. Many researchers focused on design-
ing computation ofﬂoading strategies with respect to different
objectives, such as execution delay and energy consumption.
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD DE VIGO. Downloaded on March 28,2024 at 13:24:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 3 =====
DAI et al.: META REINFORCEMENT LEARNING FOR MULTI-TASK OFFLOADING IN VEHICULAR EDGE COMPUTING
2125
[17] formulated a cooperative task ofﬂoading problem in MEC-
based architecture as a mixed-integer optimization problem, and
proposed an iterative algorithm based on the Lagrangian dual
decomposition for minimizing the latency. [18] proposed an
optimization algorithm based on deep reinforcement learning
for minimizing the energy consumption while satisfying the
delay constraint of users based on a constructed three-layer
ofﬂoading architecture. In addition, some researchers focused
on investigating resource allocation mechanisms, which also
has a crucial impact on task ofﬂoading performance. With
respect to communication resource, [19] analysed the queuing
system for the V2V link and derived the packet loss probability
and average packet sojourn time under ﬁxed power allocation,
which achieves the optimal power allocation for each possi-
ble pair. With respect to computation resource, [20] formed a
container-based multimedia collaboration system, and designed
a container layout algorithm to minimize the overall system cost.
Further, some researchers investigated the joint optimization
model by considering both computation ofﬂoading and resource
allocation.[21]formulatedajointofﬂoadingoptimizationmodel
in virtual reality application, and proposed a centralized algo-
rithm to decide the computation ofﬂoading action and resource
allocation ratio to minimize the completion delay. [22] proposed
a distributed joint optimization algorithm to provide the optimal
ofﬂoading action and resource allocation strategies, which ob-
tains the minimum cost for all mobile devices.
In addition, great efforts have been paid on designing a
variety of task ofﬂoading mechanisms dedicated for different
environmental settings. Some researchers developed heuristic
algorithms by synthesizing multiple tasks and environmental
features. [23] formulated sequential task ofﬂoading as multi-
objective optimization and designed a heuristic algorithm based
on the evaluation of ofﬂoading order of MEC server with synthe-
sizing computation capability and transmission link quality. [24]
the problem of dependency-aware task ofﬂoading in ultra-dense
edge networks and designed a priority-based algorithm, where
the priority of each subtask is evaluated by the weighted sum
of computation overhead and local energy consumption. [25]
developed an adaptive computation ofﬂoading method in 5G-
envisioned vehicular networks for optimizing task ofﬂoading de-
lay and resource utilization of the edge system, which leverages
multi-objective evolutionary algorithm based on decomposition
(MOEA/D) to generate the pareto-optimal solutions. Further,
some researchers formulated task ofﬂoading problem as a math-
ematical model and designed optimization algorithm based on
convex or nonconvex theory. [26] formulated the problem of
cooperative computation ofﬂoading based on queuing theory,
and proposed a probabilistic computation ofﬂoading algorithm
based on Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers (ADMM),
which converges to the optimal solution in an iterative way.
However, these heuristic or optimization-based algorithms rely
heavily on expert knowledge or accurate mathematical models,
where expert knowledge and model parameters have to be pe-
riodically updated due to the dynamic vehicular environment.
To overcome this issue, reinforcement learning-based [18], [27]
algorithms are developed to learn effective ofﬂoading solution
by trial and error without accurate information of the environ-
ment. [28] proposed an online learning framework to guide task
ofﬂoading in a small cell network by leveraging multi-armed
bandit technique to update task weights according to the feed-
back in uncertain and stochastic environment, which achieves
a close-to-optimal reward with low violations, and outperforms
many state-of-the-art algorithms. [29] proposed a knowledge
driven service ofﬂoading decision framework, which explores
deep reinforcement learning to obtain the optimal solution by
scrupling future data dependence of following tasks based on the
knowledge of current task. However, these algorithms have weak
adaptability for unexpected environmental ﬂuctuation, such as
task topology, task number, computation and communication
resources, which requires full retraining to learn the policy
for a new environment with intolerant time consumption. To
accommodate to different task scenarios, several fast adaptation
frameworks are developed to obtain the speciﬁc policy to a
new task within relatively small overhead. Particularly, [30],
[31] investigated online task scheduling in vehicular networks
with dynamic topology and unstable connection, and proposed
an imitation learning algorithm with near-optimal performance
from the initial stage, where the optimal scheduling policy is
obtained by following the expert’s demonstration with a few
samples. [32] developed a gradient-based meta reinforcement
learning that is able to adapt the nature of the return, such as
the rate of reward discount and the optimal reward form, whilst
interacting and learning from the dynamic environment.
Distinguished from previous works, this paper adopts the
framework of model-agnostic meta-learning (MAML) [33],
where the basic idea is to train meta parameter instead of explor-
ing optimal reward form such that a small number of gradient
updates will lead to fast learning on a new task. Compared with
other fundamental meta-RL, such as RL2 [34], MAESN [35]
and PEARL [36], the MAML is a simple general framework
and easy to be integrated with our task encoding model, which
is suitable for our concerned application. Particularly, the closest
work to our paper is [37], which also applied the MAML frame-
work to DAG-based task ofﬂoading in the scenario of a single
user with the prior knowledge of task topology. Particularly, a
sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) neural network is exploited to
model the ofﬂoading policy, where the LSTM-based encoder
is designed for capturing task topology and the PPO-clip based
policy objective is used for model training. Compared with [37],
this paper focused on a comprehensive multi-task ofﬂoading
scenario, where a new MDP model is designed to characterize
the property of multiple-vehicle resource competition and the
model of multiple wireless channels and computation servers.
Particularly, a new encoder based on BiGRU is designed in
seq2seq network for task embedding within implicit relation
between subtasks. Further, the policy objective is designed by
synthesizing the PPO-clip and KL divergence for stabilizing
the training process. Compared with existing learning-based
scheduling algorithms, our work aims at achieving better mini-
mization of task execution time within fewer gradient steps by
utilizing seq2seq model for task structure exploration and the
MRL for meta-policy training. As far as we know, it is the ﬁrst
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD DE VIGO. Downloaded on March 28,2024 at 13:24:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 4 =====
2126
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 23, NO. 3, MARCH 2024
Fig. 1.
The system architecture of multi-task ofﬂoading in MEC-based vehicular network.
work to investigate the MTO problem in MEC-based vehicular
networks by considering dynamic features of both vehicular
tasks and MEC servers.
III. SYSTEM MODEL
In this section, we present system architecture of multi-task
ofﬂoading in MEC-based vehicular network in the perspective of
application layer, vehicular layer and MEC layer, respectively,
as shown in Fig. 1.
In application layer, there exist various types of vehicular
tasks, such as face recognition, augmented vehicular reality
and vehicular navigation, where each vehicular task can be
divided into multiple dependent functional modules. For in-
stance, augmented vehicular reality can be divided into multiple
dependent functional modules, such as object tracking, object
detection, perspective transformation and fusion. Accordingly,
each vehicular task is abstracted as a directed acyclic graph
(DAG), where the vertex represents the subtask and the directed
edge represents the dependency between two subtasks. In this
paper, the successor and predecessor subtasks are called parent
and child, respectively. The child subtask can start to run only
when receiving the computation results of all its parent subtasks
as well as the information related to subtask itself. The task fea-
tures are characterized by graph topology, required computation
resources and the size of dependent data transmitted between
subtasks, which varies with the types of vehicular tasks.
In vehicular layer, each vehicle is assumed to run one type of
vehicular task and can process part of task within its local pro-
cessor. Due to its limited computation capability, the vehicle has
to choose to ofﬂoad the overloaded subtasks to the nearby MEC
server via wireless communication. Particularly, the vehicle has
two queues: the local computation queue and the local transmis-
sion queue, which are used for storing the pending subtasks to
be processed by local processor and transmitted to MEC servers,
respectively. The computation and transmission operations can
Fig. 2.
The diagram of the MTO.
be performed simultaneously. Before task ofﬂoading, each ve-
hicle will encapsulate the relevant information into the beacon
message, such as required computation resources, and the size
of subtask itself, and periodically send to the MEC server.
In MEC layer, the MEC server is deployed at wireless infras-
tructure and assumed to own multiple wireless subchannels and
processors, which can provide communication and computation
services for passing vehicles. Further, the MEC server plays
the role of the scheduler and periodically makes the ofﬂoading
decision of each pending task submitted by vehicles within its
coverage. Speciﬁcally, the MEC server will receive submitted
tasks by overhearing the beacon message broadcast by vehicles.
Then, at the beginning of each time slot, the MEC server sorts
all the pending subtasks based on a designed mechanism and
makes the ofﬂoading decision of each subtask in a sequential
order.
We give a simple example to illustrate the characteristics
of MTO. As shown in Fig. 2, we have two vehicular tasks,
which both have four subtasks but with different typologies.
For simpliﬁcation, the subasks are assumed to be homogeneous,
which require the same computation resources and generate
the same size of computation results. The subtasks of task 1
are executed in a sequential order and the notation L (or M)
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD DE VIGO. Downloaded on March 28,2024 at 13:24:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 5 =====
DAI et al.: META REINFORCEMENT LEARNING FOR MULTI-TASK OFFLOADING IN VEHICULAR EDGE COMPUTING
2127
TABLE I
SUMMARY OF NOTATIONS
indicates that the subtask is processed by local vehicle (or
ofﬂoaded to MEC server). For example, t11 is processed by the
local vehicle and the computation time is denoted by TL. t12 is
ofﬂoaded to MEC server, which consumes upload time TL→M
and computation time TM. Further, the computation result of
t12 has to be transmitted to t13, which consumes download time
TM→L. Accordingly, the execution time of task 1 is 2(TL +
TM + TL→M + TM→L). Task 2 has three parallel subtasks t21,
t22 and t23. t24 can start to run when receiving the computation
results of all its parents. Therefore, the execution time of t2 is
MAX(TL + TL→M, TM + TL→M) + TM + TM→L. Based on
the above observation, the topology of vehicular task has great
effect on task execution time. Further, both the subtasks and
MEC server can be heterogeneous, which varies with different
vehicular applications. Therefore, a fast adaptive ofﬂoading
mechanism is urgently needed for dynamic vehicular environ-
ment.
IV. PROBLEM FORMULATION
A. Preliminary
Each task ofﬂoading scenario is denoted by Ti and char-
acterized by the features of both vehicular tasks and MEC
servers. In each task ofﬂoading scenario Ti, the set of vehicles
is denoted by V . Each vehicle v ∈V is assumed to run one task
modeled as a DAG, which consists of a set of subtasks and a set
of directed edges represent for the dependencies between two
substasks. The pth subtask on vehicle v is denoted by tv,p, which
is characterized by a three-tuple (dL
v,p, cv,p, dO
v,p). Speciﬁcally,
dL
v,p is the size of subtask itself (i.e., the program code and related
parameters), cv,p is the required computation resource and dO
v,p
is the size of its output data. Further, the input data of a subtask
tv,p, denoted by dI
v,p, is deﬁned as the summation of the subtask
itself and the output data of its parents, i.e.,
dI
v,p = dL
v,p +

tv,k∈P (tv,p)
dO
v,k, ∀v ∈V, ∀p ∈P,
(1)
where P(tv,p) denotes the set of its parent subtasks. It is assumed
that the subtasks share the output data of the same parents. On the
other hand, the MEC server is characterized by its transmission
and computation capability. The MEC server has R uplink
subchannels, where wireless bandwidth of the rth subchannel
is denoted by wr. The MEC server owns M processors and the
computation frequency of mth processor is fm. The primary
notations used in this paper are summarized in Table 1.
In addition, the ofﬂoading decision of subtask tv,p is repre-
sented by a set of binary integer variables xr
v,p and ym
v,p, where
xr
v,p and ym
v,p indicate whether the rth subchannel and the mth
processor are selected for task ofﬂoading or not, respectively.
Particularly, x0
v,p = 1 or y0
v,p = 1 indicates that the subtask is
processed by the local vehicle. The ﬁrst-in-ﬁrst-service (FIFS)
queuing model is adopted to simulate the process procedure of
computation processor and transmission channel. As the subtask
is the minimum ofﬂoading unit, only one subchannel and one
processor can be selected for each subtask tv,p. Therefore, the
following constraints must be satisﬁed.

r∈R∪{0}
xr
v,p = 1,
∀v ∈V, ∀p ∈P,

m∈M∪{0}
ym
v,p = 1,
∀v ∈V, ∀p ∈P,
x0
v,p = y0
v,p,
∀v ∈V, ∀p ∈P,
xr
v,p, ym
v,p ∈{0, 1},
∀r ∈R ∪{0}, ∀m ∈M ∪{0} (2)
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD DE VIGO. Downloaded on March 28,2024 at 13:24:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 6 =====
2128
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 23, NO. 3, MARCH 2024
B. Task Ofﬂoading Model
In this section, we formulate the task ofﬂoading model, which
consists of task transmission and computation model.
First, the input data of subtask tv,p has to be transmitted to
the ofﬂoaded server. To facilitate further discussion, we divide
P(tv,p)intotwosets:theparentsofﬂoadedtoMECserverandlo-
cal processor, denoted by P M(tv,p) and P L(tv,p), respectively.
Let TE(tv,p) denote the time of completely receiving the input
data of subtask tv,p, which is analyzed in the following two
cases.
r When the subtask tv,p is ofﬂoaded to local vehicle, i.e.,
x0
v,p = 1, only the output data of its parent subtasks in
P M(tv,p), needs to be transmitted to the local vehicle via
download channel. Once the subtask tv,k is completed,
its output data dO
v,k is immediately put into the download
queue and transmitted in a ﬁrst-in-ﬁrst-out (FIFO) rule. Let
CE(tv,k) denotes the time of completing the subtask tv,k
and WT d(tv,k) denotes the waiting time in the download
queue, then the start time of transmitting output data dO
v,k
of tv,k, denoted by TS(dO
v,k), is computed by
TS(dO
v,k) = CE(tv,k) + WT d(tv,k), if x0
v,k = 1,
tv,k ∈P M(tv,p).
(3)
According to the Shannon’s formula, the time of transmit-
ting output data dO
v,k is computed as
T(dO
v,k) =
dO
v,k
wdlog2

1 + qmgv
ϖ
, if x0
v,k = 1,
tv,k ∈P M(tv,p).
(4)
where wd is the download bandwidth, qm is the trans-
mission power, gv is the channel gain between v and the
MEC server, and ϖ is the noise power. On this basis,
the time of receiving the input data of subtask tv,p de-
noted by TE(tv,p), is computed as the maximum of the
summation of TS(dO
v,k) and T(dO
v,k) among the subtasks
tv,k ∈P M(tv,p), i.e.,
TE(tv,p)
=
max
∀tv,k∈P M(tv,p){TS(dO
v,k) + T(dO
v,k)}, if x0
v,p = 1.
(5)
r When the subtask tv,p is ofﬂoaded to the MEC server,
i.e., xr
v,p = 1, which indicates the rth uplink subchannel
is selected for data upload, then both the subtask itself and
the output data of its parent subtasks in P L(tv,p) have to be
ofﬂoaded to the MEC server. The local vehicle aggregates
the output data of P L(tv,p) as well as the subtask itself
togetherandthenputthemintothequeueofuplinkchannel.
In this case, we only care about the subtask t∗
v,p with the
maximum CE(t∗
v,p) among P L(tv,p), i.e.,
t∗
v,p = arg
max
∀tv,k∈P L(tv,p){CE(tv,k)}.
(6)
Similarly, the start time of transmitting the output data of
t∗
v,p is formulated as follows
TS(t∗
v,p) = CE(t∗
v,p) + WT r(t∗
v,p),
(7)
where WT r(t∗
v,p) is the waiting time of t∗
v,p in the rth
uplinksubchannel.Sincetheinputdataoftv,p isaggregated
and transmitted together, T(t∗
v,p) is computed by the total
size of input data of tv,p on the local vehicle divided by the
upload rate of rth uplink subchannel, which is computed
as
T(t∗
v,p) =
dL
v,p + 
∀tv,k∈P L(tv,p) dO
v,k
wrlog2(1 + qvgv
ϖ )
.
(8)
Then TE(tv,p) is computed as the summation of TS(t∗
v,p)
and T(t∗
v,p), which is formulated as
TE(tv,p) = TS(t∗
v,p) + T(t∗
v,p), if xr
v,p = 1.
(9)
Second, after data transmission, the subtask tv,p is put into
the computation queue of the local vehicle or the MEC server,
which depends on its ofﬂoading decision. Let WT l(tv,p) (or
WT m(tv,p)) denote the waiting time of tv,p in the computation
queue of local vehicle (or the MEC server), then the start time of
computing the subtask tv,p, denoted by CS(tv,p), is computed
as
CS(tv,p)=
 TE(tv,p) + WT l(tv,p),
if y0
v,p = 1,
TE(tv,p) + WT m(tv,p),
if ym
v,p = 1.
(10)
Then, the time duration of computing tv,p is computed by the
required computation resource cv,p divided by the computation
capacity of ofﬂoaded server, which is formulated as
C(tv,p) =

cv,p
fv ,
if y0
v,p = 1,
cv,p
fm ,
if ym
v,p = 1.
(11)
Then, the time of completing subtask tv,p is computed as
CE(tv,p) = CS(tv,p) + C(tv,p).
(12)
On this basis, the execution time of a vehicular task tv is deﬁned
as the maximum of CE(tv,p) among all the subtasks tv,p ∈tv
minus the submission time ST(tv,p), which is formulated as
ET(tv) = max
∀p∈P{CE(tv,p)} −ST(tv,p).
(13)
To evaluate system performance, we deﬁne average execution
time (AET) as the objective, which is computed by the summa-
tion of the execution time of all vehicular tasks divided by the
total task number, which is computed by
AET =

∀v∈V
ET(tv)
||V || .
(14)
C. Multi-Task Ofﬂoading Problem
Task ofﬂoading scenario is characterized by the parameters of
both vehicular task and environment, including task topology,
computation/computation resources, etc., where the speciﬁc val-
ues are assumed to be sampled from a given distribution within
predeﬁned range. Accordingly, task ofﬂoading scenarios differ
from each other in the change of parameter value, which reﬂects
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD DE VIGO. Downloaded on March 28,2024 at 13:24:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 7 =====
DAI et al.: META REINFORCEMENT LEARNING FOR MULTI-TASK OFFLOADING IN VEHICULAR EDGE COMPUTING
2129
the dynamics of vehicular tasks or environment. For each Ti,
the set of parameters are given as follows: the DAG of vehicular
task, the bandwidths of downlink and uplink subchannels, and
the computation capabilities of local vehicle and MEC servers.
Then, the optimization model is formulated as
Ti :
min
xrv,p,ym
v,p AET
s.t. Constraints in Eq.(2).
(15)
It is noted that the model in (15) is an integer linear programming
(ILP) problem. Further, in the MTO problem, the parameters of
vehicular tasks, local vehicles and MEC servers, vary with dif-
ferent ofﬂoading scenarios Ti. Thus, these existing expert-based
or learning-based algorithms suffer from overhigh overhead and
cannot be fast adapted to dynamic application scenarios.
V. ALGORITHM DESIGN
A. The Seq2Seq-Based MDP Model
We conceive the MTO problem as multiple MDPs and each
scenario Ti is modeled as an MDP. The proposed SMRL-MTO
algorithm aims to ﬁnd an effective meta-policy for all MDPs as
well as a fast adaptive ofﬂoading policy for a speciﬁc MDP. The
basic elements of the MDP are designed as follows.
r System state: as observed in Section IV-B, the execution
time of a subtask depends on task proﬁle (such as required
computation resources and data dependencies), the avail-
able communication and computation resources of MEC
servers and the ofﬂoading decisions of previous subtasks.
Accordingly, the system state at t step is formulated as
S = {st|st = (e, a1:t))},
t ∈[1, N],
(16)
where e is the task embedding and a1:t is the ofﬂoad-
ing decision of the ﬁrst t subtasks. To convert the DAG
into a sequence, we index the subtasks according to its
layer in the DAG and the scheduling rule is deﬁned as
follows. The subtask with lower layer is scheduled earlier
and then have lower ofﬂoading index. For the subtasks
with the same layer, the ofﬂoading indexes are randomly
assigned. The subtask with lower ofﬂoading index can
be scheduled in prior in the upload queue or the com-
putation queue. Then the task embedding e is denoted
by e = [e1, e2, . . . , ej, . . . ., eN]. Each ej represents the
featurevectorofsubtasktv,p,whichincludestheofﬂoading
index, the size of subtask itself and the required compu-
tation resource, the bandwidths of subchannels and the
processing rates of processors, denoted as
e(tv,p) = [Iv,p, dL
v,p, cv,p, fv, f1, . . . , fM, w1, . . . , wR].
(17)
It is noted that the structure of the DAG is dynamic and the
length of task embedding e varies with subtask number. In
order to learn the implicit relation between different sub-
tasks and their ofﬂoading decisions, a dedicated Seq2Seq
model is designed to characterize the task embedding e
with varying length, which will be described in detail later.
r Action Space: one-hot encoding is adopted to represent
the ofﬂoading decision at t step, which is represented as an
RM + 1-dimensional binary vector
at = [at1, at2, . . . , atk, . . .]
(18)
where each atk, k = (r −1) ∗M + m, indicates whether
the rth subchannel and mth processor is selected or not.
Particularly, at,0 = 1 indicates the subtask is ofﬂoaded
to the local vehicle. According to (18), the dimension
of action space is 2M∗R+1, which scales exponentially
with the number of channels and processors. Therefore,
the traditional reinforcement learning algorithm, such as
Q-learning, cannot efﬁciently solve the MTO problem due
to large action spaces.
r Reward Function: it is computed by the time of completing
previous subtask tv′,p′ minus the time of completing the
current ofﬂoaded subtask tv,p, which is formulated as
follows
R(tv,p)
=

CE(tv′,p′) −CE(tv,p), if Iv,p = Iv′,p′ + 1,
−CE(tv,p), if Iv,p = 0
(19)
Where Iv,p denotes the ofﬂoading index of tv,p and tv,p is
scheduled next to tv′,p′. Based on (19), the higher reward
indicates lower increment of time consumption by com-
pleting one more subtask, which contributes to minimizing
the objective.
Seq2Seq model is an effective paradigm to encode the se-
quence of input information into a vector recurrently and decode
it to generate the output. However, when the input sequence
length is too long, it will cause seriously information loss. To
overcome this issue, attention mechanism [38] is added to allow
the decoder to show different preferences to different parts of
input sequence and alleviates the information loss. As shown
in Fig. 3, the proposed Seq2Seq model consists of two parts:
encoder and decoder.
r The encoder is a bidirectional gated recurrent units (Bi-
GRU), where the forward and backward functions of Bi-
GRU are deﬁned as hf
enc and hb
enc. Accordingly, the sub-
tasks are encoded according to the ascending order of the
ofﬂoading indexes in an recurrent way, obtained by
ef
i = hf
enc(ef
i−1, ti)
eb
i = hb
enc(eb
i+1, ti+1)
ei = (ef
i , eb
i)
(20)
r The decoder is an attentional GRU, where the function of
the GRU is deﬁned as hdec. For the subtask with ofﬂoading
index j, its output generated by the decoder, denoted by
dj, is jointly determined by the previous ofﬂoading action
aj−1, the contex vector cj and previous output dj−1, for-
mulated as follow
dj = hdec(dj−1, cj, aj−1).
(21)
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD DE VIGO. Downloaded on March 28,2024 at 13:24:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 8 =====
2130
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 23, NO. 3, MARCH 2024
Fig. 3.
The Paradigm of SMRL-MTO.
cj is the context vector based on attention mechanism for
predicting the action of subtask with ofﬂoading index j and
computed by
cj =
N

k=1
αjkei.
(22)
αjk is the weight to measure the connection between
the input ei and the output aj, which exactly evaluates
the inheritance between different subtasks. The attention
mechanism in this paper is deﬁned as a trainable feed
forward neural network.
B. MRL-Based Model Training
The designed SMRL- MTO adopts the MAML framework,
which assumes that the model is parametrized and updated by
gradient-based learning technique and able to adapt to a variety
of tasks, such as classiﬁcation, regression and reinforcement
learning. The basic idea of MAML is to pretrain meta parameters
on a large number of different sampled tasks and fast adapt to
a new task based on meta parameters from a small amount of
new data. In this paper, we design the MRL-based modeling
training by implementing the MAML framework in vehicular
edge environment, where the general training procedure consists
of local gradient update and meta training and is described as
follows. First, the local gradient update is implemented at each
terminal and responsible of computing the gradient based on
the trajectories of the tasks sampled from task distribution. The
generated local gradient will be used for the parameter update
of local model and also uploaded to MEC server for later meta
training. Further, the meta training performed at MEC server is
used for updating meta parameters based on the aggregation
of local gradient uploaded from user terminals. Particularly,
due to dynamic vehicular environment, the meta parameter is
periodically updated. When the terminal faces a new task or the
environment varies a lot, a speciﬁc ofﬂoading policy is obtained
with a small number of gradient steps from meta parameters.
The local gradient update is designed based on a policy
gradient method, called the Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO)
algorithm [39] for searching the ofﬂoading policy of the speciﬁc
MDP. The basic idea of PPO is to transform the on-policy
training process into off-policy by importance sampling, so as to
speed up the training. There are two different policies existing
in PPO: sampling policy πθ′ and target policy πθ. Before each
sampling, πθ′ is initialized as πθ. Then, the PPO uses πθ′ to
generate experience trajectories, which is used for updating πθ.
In addition, for the purpose of stabilizing the training process,
the policy objective is designed by synthesizing the PPO-clip
and KL divergence as follows
JP (θ) = Eτ∼pθ′(τ)
 T

t=1
min(clip1+ε
1−ε(Prt) ˆ
At, Prt ˆ
At)

−βKL(θ, θ′),
(23)
where the KL divergence KL(θ, θ′) is used to evaluate the
difference between πθ and πθ′ for generating even distribution
of sampling action and the clip function clip1+ϵ
1−ϵ(Prt) limits
the value of Prt in the interval of [1 −ϵ, 1 + ϵ] for avoiding
over update of parameters. Prt represents the probability ratio
between the target policy πθ and sampling policy πθ′ in step t,
and ˆ
At is the general advantage estimator (GAE) used as the
advantage function in step t, which are deﬁned as follows
Prt = πθ(at|st)
πθ′(at|st),
(24)
ˆ
At =
T −t

l=0
(T λ)l [rt+l + T V (st+l+1) −V (st+l)] ,
(25)
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD DE VIGO. Downloaded on March 28,2024 at 13:24:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 9 =====
DAI et al.: META REINFORCEMENT LEARNING FOR MULTI-TASK OFFLOADING IN VEHICULAR EDGE COMPUTING
2131
where λ is used to balance the bias and variance of advantage
function value, and V (st) is the value function which indicates
the expected return of the experience trajectory starting from st.
Then, the loss of the value function is deﬁned as follows.
JV (θ) = Eτ∼pθ′(τ)
 T

t=1
(V ′(st) −V (st))2

(26)
Where V ′(st) = T −t
l=0 T lrt+l. Based on (23) and (26), the
objective function and the update function of the PPO are deﬁned
as follows.
J(θ) = JP (θ) −ηJV (θ),
(27)
ˆθ = θ + α∇J(θ),
(28)
where η is the coefﬁcient of the loss function of state value and
α is the learning rate.
For meta training, we use the MAML framework proposed by
[33] to train a model that is fast adaptive to a new task Ti drawn
from a task distribution ρ(T ) after a small number of training
epochs. The objective of meta-learning is deﬁned as
JM(θ) = ETi∼ρ(T )[JTi( ˆθi)], ˆθi = θ + α∇JTi(θ),
(29)
where JTi is the objective function of task Ti deﬁned in (27).
Then the parameters related to the global model are updated as
follows using the gradient ascent method.
θ = θ + β∇θJM(θ) = θ + β∇θETi∼ρ(T )[JTi( ˆθi)],
(30)
where β is the learning rate of meta training. However, the
parameter update in (30) involves the computation of the second-
order gradient, which brings expensive computation cost and is
inefﬁcient. Therefore, we use the ﬁrst-order approximation to
avoidthecomputationofsecond-ordergradient,whichisdeﬁned
as follows.
∇θJM(θ) ≈gM = 1
n
n

i=1
[( ˆθi −θ)/α/m],
(31)
where n denotes the number of sampled tasks in meta training
and m is the update step for local gradient update.
Overall, the implementation of SMRL-MTO is shown in
Algorithm V.1 is described as follows. First, the training data
is generated based on the distribution ρ(T ), and each set of
parameters generates a dataset of DAGs. Then, in the loop of
local gradient update, the ofﬂoading policy for a speciﬁc MTO
scenario Ti is trained. For each Ti, the parameters of sampling
and target policy are initialized to the meta policy and experience
pool is set to empty, shown in lines 5∼7. For each task in Ti,
the SMRL-MTO performs action according to sampling policy,
obtains reward and collects the trajectory, shown in lines 10∼12.
Then, the parameters of target policy network is updated with m
steps based on (27), shown in lines 15∼16. Finally, in the meta
training loop, the policy network parameter is updated based
on (31), as shown in line 18. When the algorithm terminates,
we can acquire the meta policy with pre-trained parameter θ,
which adapts to new Ti with local gradient update with a few
steps.
AlgorithmV.1.Seq2Seq-BasedMetaReinforcementLearn-
ing for Multi-Task Ofﬂoading (SMRL-MTO).
Input and initialization:
Initialize n training data sets based on task distribution
ρ(T );
Initialize the policy network parameter θ of meta
training;
1:
Initialize n training data sets based on task distribution
ρ(T )
2:
Initialize the policy network parameter θ of meta
training
3:
for k = 1 to K do
// Meta training loop
4:
for each MTO scenario Ti ∼ρ(T ) do
// Local gradient update loop
5:
Initialize the network parameter of sampling
policy θ′
i ←θ
6:
Initialize the network parameter of target policy
θi ←θ
7:
Initialize the experience pool Di ←∅
8:
for each DAG in Ti do
9:
for t = 1, · · · T do
10:
Sample action at for state st based on policy
πθ′
i
11:
Obtain reward rt deﬁned in (19)
12:
Put the trajectory (st, at, rt) into experience
pool Di
13:
end for
14:
end for
15:
Compute J(θ) of target policy based on (27)
16:
Update target policy ˆθi = θi + α∇θiJTi(θi) with
m steps
17:
end for
18:
Update the meta parameter θ = θ + βgM
19:
end for
20:
returnThe meta policy of ρ(T ) with parameter θ
VI. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
A. Default Setting
We implemented the system architecture in Section III.
We simulate the MEC-based vehicular environment based on
Python programming, where the parameters of both MEC
servers and vehicular tasks are sampled from a given distribution
and the ofﬂoading procedure in system model described in
Section III is implemented including task transmission, queuing
and computation. The detailed parameter setting is presented
as follows. Speciﬁcally, the wireless uplink channel of MEC
serverisdividedintofoursubchannelsandthebandwidthofeach
subchannels is evenly generated from the interval [3, 6] MHz.
The channel noise power is set as 10−5 mW and channel gain
ranges from 1 to 3. Further, each MEC server is equipped with
three processors, where the processing rate is evenly generated
from the interval [1, 2]G CPU cycless. In addition, for each
vehicle, the processing rate and the transmission power are
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD DE VIGO. Downloaded on March 28,2024 at 13:24:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 10 =====
2132
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 23, NO. 3, MARCH 2024
randomly selected from the interval [0.5, 1] G CPU cycle/s and
[100, 200] mW, respectively. To characterize different types of
vehicular applications, the dataset of vehicular tasks is generated
based on a synthetic DAG generator called DAGGEN [40],
which is used for generating heterogeneous DAGs. Speciﬁcally,
four parameters are set to control task topology and proﬁles,
where n, fat, density and ccr determine the subtask number,
the height and width of the DAG, the density of edges, and the
ratio of output data size to the size of subtask itself, respectively.
By default, n, density, fat and ccr are set to 5, 0.8, 0.5, and 0.5,
respectively. The size of subtask itself and the required comput-
ing resources are randomly selected from the intervals [300, 400]
KB and [50, 60] M CPU cycles. For model pretraining, training
dataset is sampled based on a set of predeﬁned parameters.
Then, the model is evaluated on testing dataset generated by
different parameter settings, which represents for new tasks or
environment settings.
For algorithm implementation, there are three layers in both
encoder and decoder and each layer has 512 hidden units. The
discount factors T and λ are set as 0.95 and the clip constant is set
as 0.2. The weights of KL divergence and state value loss are set
as 0.1 and 0.5, respectively. In addition, the learning rate is both
set to 10−4. The SMRL-MTO algorithm is ﬁrst trained ofﬂine to
learn a meta policy based on training data set generated by the
synthetic DAG generator. Further, the SMRL-MTO with meta
policy performs on new task ofﬂoading scenarios with unseen
parameters.
For performance comparison, we implement the following
competitive algorithms:
r PPO [41]: which is implemented at each MEC server and
makes ofﬂoading decision for subtasks. In this way, each
agent has an independent neural network.
r DQN [42]: which is also implemented at each MEC server.
Each DQN model train it’s network parameter using it’s
local experience memory.
r Greedy: which greedily chooses the processor or uploads
subchannel which has lowest load for pending subtasks.
For performance evaluation, we collected the following statis-
tics for each subtask tv,p: the execution time ET(tv), the waiting
time CW(tv,p) in the computation queue and the ofﬂoading
decision x0
v,p, the computation load clm of processor m, the
computation load clv of vehicle v and the transmission load
tlr of subchannel r. Besides the objective, we deﬁne extra four
metrics as follows.
r Computation waiting time (CWT): it is deﬁned as the sum
of all subtask’s waiting time in computation queue divided
by the subtask number, i.e.,
CWT =

v∈V

p∈P
CW(tv,p)
||V || × ||P||
(32)
r Ofﬂoading proportion (OP): let OP(l) and OP(m) denote
the ratio of subtasks ofﬂoaded to local vehicle and MEC
server, respectively, i.e.,
OP(l) =

v∈V

p∈P
x0
v,p
||V || × ||P||
OP(m) = 1 −OP(l)
(33)
r Load balance ratio (LBR): the Jain’s fairness index
[43] is used to evaluate the load balance of processors
and subchannels, denoted by LBR(c) and LBR(r),
i.e.,
LBR(c)=
(

v∈V
clv
fv +
m∈M
clm
fm )
2
(||V ||+||M||)

v∈V ( clv
fv )
2+
m∈M ( clm
fm )
2
(34)
LBR(r)=

r∈R tlr/wr
2
||R|| R
r=1 (tlr/wr)2
(35)
Higher value of LBR indicates that the workload is more
evenly distributed.
r Fairness of Vehicles (FoV): to evaluate the fairness among
multiple vehicles, Fairness of Vehicles (FoV) is deﬁned
as the summation of the square of execution time ET(tv)
divided by the square of the summation of execution time
ET(tv)based on the Jain’s fairness index [43], which is
formulated as
FoV =

v∈V
(ET(tv))2
	 
v∈V
ET(tv)

2
(36)
The higher value of FoV indicates that the ﬂuctuation of
the execution time among vehicles is smoother and brings
better fairness. Particularly,FoV = 1indicates theoptimal
fairness where the execution time of each vehicle is equal
to each other.
B. Simulation Results
1) Effect of Subtask Number: In this section, we evaluate the
performanceoffouralgorithmsunderdifferentsubtasknumbers,
where ﬁve testing sets are generated with subtask number n ∈
[4, 6, 8, 10, 12] and each set consists of 50 DAGs. Particularly,
the SMRL-MTO, PPO and DQN are ﬁrst pre-trained on the
training datasets with n ∈[5, 7, 9] with 1000 gradient update
steps, where the obtained meta-policy is used as meta parameter
performed on testing set. Table II compares the AET of Greedy,
SMRL-MTO, PPO and DQN with 20 and 50 training steps under
different subtask numbers, respectively. According to Table II,
the AET of four algorithms increases when the subtask number
increases. It is because that higher subtask number brings higher
workload of each task and results in longer waiting time before
execution, which is validated by Fig. 4(b) that the CWT of four
algorithms increases.
Further, the proposed SMRL-MTO achieves the lowest AET
among four algorithms according to Table II, which is explained
as follows. First, the SMRL-MTO can fully exploit the commu-
nication and computation resources and achieve load balance
between multiple subchannels and processors. As shown in
Fig. 4(c) and (d), the SMRL-MTO achieves competitive LBR
compared with Greedy and higher than that of PPO and DQN.
Second, the SMRL-MTO can better learn and exploit the depen-
dency between subtasks based on dedicated designed Seq2seq
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD DE VIGO. Downloaded on March 28,2024 at 13:24:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 11 =====
DAI et al.: META REINFORCEMENT LEARNING FOR MULTI-TASK OFFLOADING IN VEHICULAR EDGE COMPUTING
2133
TABLE II
THE AET OF FOUR ALGORITHMS UNDER DIFFERENT SUBTASK NUMBERS
Fig. 4.
The performance of four algorithms under different subtask numbers.
model and effectively reduce waiting time before execution,
which is reﬂected by the lowest CWT achieved by SMRL-MTO
compared with other algorithms shown in Fig. 4(b). Though
the Greedy achieves the highest LBR, but it still suffers from
high CWT since it cannot learn the relationship between sub-
tasks. Third, the SMRL-MTO can fully utilize the resources
of MEC servers for accelerating the task execution. As shown
in Fig. 4(a), the SMRL-MTO achieves the highest OP(m)
and maintains at the stable level when the subtask number
increases, which indicates the SMRL-MTO can well balance
the workload distribution among the MEC server and local
vehicle.
To show fast adaptiveness, we compare SMRL-MTO, PPO
and DQN with two different gradient update steps. As shown
in Table II, the SMRL-MTO achieves competitive AET with
only 5 update steps compared to the result with 20 update steps
and outperforms PPO and DQN with 20 update steps, which
indicates that the pre-trained meta-policy enables SMRL-MTO
fast adapt to new MTO scenario. Particularly, we compare the
convergence performance of four algorithms when adapting
to new task environments with different subtask number. It
is observed in Fig. 5(a) that the AET of the four algorithms
is very close to each other at ﬁrst. Then, the SMRL-MTO
decreases the AET dramatically within a few gradient update
steps and converge to the best policy among the four algorithms.
The Greedy maintains the same AET since its policy is ﬁxed
and cannot learn from the environment. The PPO has a faster
convergence speed than the DQN. In all cases, i.e., Fig. 5(a)∼(e),
it is observed that the DQN cannot fast adapt to a new task
environment, where the DQN achieves the worst AET at ﬁrst
and requires the longest training steps for convergence compared
with PPO and SMRL-MTO. The PPO can converge very fast but
cannot search the best policy compared with the SMRL-MTO
since it cannot well exploit the relationship between different
subtasks. It is noted that the SMRL-MTO can obtain the best
policy within 20 gradient update steps compared with the other
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD DE VIGO. Downloaded on March 28,2024 at 13:24:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 12 =====
2134
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 23, NO. 3, MARCH 2024
Fig. 5.
The convergence performance of four algorithms under different subtask numbers.
TABLE III
THE AVERAGE EXECUTION TIME (AET) OF FOUR ALGORITHMS ON DIFFERENT BANDWIDTHS OF SUBCHANNEL
algorithms. In addition, we compare the fairness among multiple
vehicles in terms of AET. Fig. 4(e) shows the FoV of the four
algorithms under different subtask numbers. It is noted that
the SMRL-MTO achieves the second highest FoV close to 1.0
among the four algorithms, which indicates that the AET does
not ﬂuctuate among vehicles and avoids the overlong execution
time of individual vehicles. Though the Greedy achieves the best
FoV but with large performance gap of AET compared with the
SMRL-MTO.
2) Effect of Wireless Bandwidth: In this section, we com-
pare the performance of four algorithms under different band-
widths of subchannels. Speciﬁcally, the SMRL-MTO, PPO
and DQN are pretrained on the datasets with bandwidth
wr ∈[3, 4], [5, 6], [7, 8] within 1000 gradient update steps.
Then, all algorithms are tested on ﬁve datasets with wr ∈
[2, 3], [4, 5], [6, 7], [8, 9], [10, 11]. Table III compares the AET of
four algorithms with different update steps under varying band-
widths of subchannel. The increasing subchannel bandwidth
brings lower data transmission time, which reduces communica-
tion overhead between local vehicles and MEC servers. Accord-
ingly, the AET of four algorithms decreases as the bandwidth
of subchannel increases. Particularly, the decreasing speed of
the AET slows down when the bandwidth of subchannel keeps
increasing. It is because that the transmission time dominates
the AET at ﬁrst with limited wireless bandwidth. When the
bandwidth keeps increasing, the computation time becomes the
dominant and the effect of transmission time reduction becomes
insigniﬁcant, which is validated by Fig. 6(a) and (b) that the
OP(l) and the CWT of four algorithms decreases dramatically
from wr ∈[2, 3] to [4,5] and then maintains at a stable level. It is
notedthattheSMRL-MTOstillachievesthelowestCWTamong
four algorithms. As shown in Fig. 6(c) and (d), the SMRL-MTO
can achieve the competitive LBR of subchannels and proces-
sors compared with Greedy, which indicates that SMRL-MTO
also achieves well workload balance. Further, with respect to
fairness, as shown in Fig. 6(e), the SMRL-MTO keeps the FoV
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD DE VIGO. Downloaded on March 28,2024 at 13:24:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 13 =====
DAI et al.: META REINFORCEMENT LEARNING FOR MULTI-TASK OFFLOADING IN VEHICULAR EDGE COMPUTING
2135
Fig. 6.
The performance of four algorithms under different bandwidths of subchannels.
at the stable level (around 0.95) and competitive to the Greedy
under varying bandwidth of subchannel, which shows that the
SMRL-MTO can fairly balance the resource allocation among
multiple vehicles in dynamic network conditions. Accordingly,
the SMRL-MTO achieves the best AET among four algorithms.
In addition, the SMRL-MTO with 5 training steps achieves
competitive AET compared that with 20 training steps and even
lower than DQN and PPO with 20 training steps, which indicates
that SMRL-MTO can fast adapt to varying network conditions.
3) Effect of Vehicle Arrival Rate: This experiment compares
the performance of four algorithms under different vehicular
arrival rates, where the SMRL-MTO is trained on the datasets
with vehicular arrival rate belongs to the set {3, 9, 15, 21, 27,
33} and all algorithms are tested using the realistic vehicular
trajectories. To test algorithm performance in different trafﬁc
scenarios, the realistic vehicular trajectories [44] are extracted
from the Qingyang District, Chengdu, 8:00 to 16:00 on 11th,
October, 2018. According to the statistics, we select ﬁve rep-
resentative trafﬁc periods, which generates ﬁve testing datasets
characterized by different arrival rates, i.e., {6.7, 8.1, 10.6, 14.1,
17.9}. Each algorithm is scheduled for ofﬂoading the pending
tasks in every 20 seconds. Fig. 7(a) compares the AET of all
algorithms under different vehicle arrival rates. As shown, the
AET of all the algorithms increases when vehicle arrival rate
increases, which indicates heavier workload. Fig. 7(b) shows
the FoV of four algorithms under varying vehicle arrival rates.
It is observed that the FoV of PPO and DQN vary dynamically
TABLE IV
RUNNING TIME OF FOUR ALGORITHMS
with different trafﬁc workloads, which indicates that the PPO
and DQN cannot fairly handle multiple vehicular tasks in dy-
namic trafﬁc workloads. The SMRL-MTO keeps the FoV at a
preferable level, since it can treat each vehicular task equally
by encoding all these subtasks based on the designed Seq2seq
model.Accordingly,theproposedSMRL-MTOstillachievesthe
best performance compared to the other three algorithms, which
demonstrates the scalability of our proposed algorithm against
varying trafﬁc workloads of real-world vehicular trajectories.
4) Discussion of Running Time: In this section, we discuss
running time of four algorithms, which is one of the most impor-
tant metrics to evaluate algorithm feasibility from engineering
aspect. The simulation platform is a computation server with
Intel Xeon Gold 6248R Dual CPU, 128 GB RAM and NVIDIA
GeForce RTX 3090. Table IV shows the running time of four
algorithms during the phase of pre-training, fast adaptation and
decision making. In pre-training phase, the SMRL-MTO, PPO
and DQN are trained with 1000 gradient update steps, which
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD DE VIGO. Downloaded on March 28,2024 at 13:24:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 14 =====
2136
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 23, NO. 3, MARCH 2024
Fig. 7.
The performance of four algorithms under different vehicle arrival
rates.
take the running time of 47.54min, 13.98min and 19.92min. It
can be seen that SMRL-MTO takes the most time consumption
due to deep structure of designed neural networks. Fortunately,
it is noted that the pre-training of the proposed algorithm can
be performed ofﬂine with sampled data from historical observa-
tion or built distribution. In fast adaptation phase, as shown in
Table IV, the SMRL-MTO achieves competitive running time
compared with PPO and DQN. Particularly, the running time of
SMRL-MTO is only a slightly higher than PPO and DQN but
falls within one minute in both 5 and 20 gradient steps. It is also
noted in Fig. 5, the SMRL-MTO can always fast adapt to new
task ofﬂoading scenario within 5 gradient steps at the cost of
0.25min running time. Moreover, the running time of decision
making after model training is averaged over 1000 tasks. As
shown in Table IV, the running time of decision making of all
these four algorithms are almost the same and around 0.029s,
which indicates that the proposed algorithm can run as fast as
heuristic algorithm and validates its applicability in realistic
vehicular applications.
VII. CONCLUSION
This paper investigated the MTO problem, where each sce-
nario Ti is characterized by the features of both vehicular tasks
V and MEC servers M, such as task topologies, data depen-
dencies between subtasks, resource requirements and transmis-
sion/computation capabilities of MEC servers. To fast adapt to
new MTO scenario, we developed the SMRL-MTO algorithm
by integrating Seq2seq model and meta-learning framework.
Speciﬁcally, the Seq2seq model developed a Bi-GRU to ex-
plore the dependency relationship between subtasks by encoding
sequential actions iteratively and make ofﬂoading action by
evaluating the weight of different part of input based on attention
mechanism. Further, a meta reinforcement learning framework
is proposed to train a meta policy based on PPO in meta training
process and fast adapt to a new task scenario within a few
gradient steps. Finally, we compared the SMRL-MTO with three
competitive algorithms, where the results demonstrate the fast
adaptiveness and the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm in
varying service scenarios.
It is noted that the proposed algorithm still requires large
sampled data for meta training. There exist many emerging
meta-RLs that can improve sample efﬁciency and generate better
meta-policy by introducing latent space model, such as MAESN
[35] and PEARL [36]. In the future, we will investigate the
feasibility of incorporating theses mechanisms into our algo-
rithm to further reduce sample overhead and achieve better
adaptation. In addition, we will test the performance of other
training methods, such as TD3 and DPPO, for further enhancing
training performance.
REFERENCES
[1] T. Xiao, C. Chen, Q. Pei, and H. H. Song, “Consortium blockchain-based
computation ofﬂoading using mobile edge platoon cloud in Internet of
Vehicles,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 23, no. 10, pp. 17 769–
17 783, Oct. 2022.
[2] M. Abbasi, M. Yaghoobikia, M. Raﬁee, M. R. Khosravi, and V. G. Menon,
“Optimal distribution of workloads in cloud-fog architecture in intelligent
vehicular networks,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 22, no. 7,
pp. 4706–4715, Jul. 2021.
[3] W.
Fan
et
al.,
“Joint
task
ofﬂoading
and
resource
allocation
for vehicular edge computing based on V2I and V2V modes,”
IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., early access, Jan. 05, 2023,
doi: 10.1109/TITS.2022.3230430.
[4] H. Peng and X. Shen, “Multi-agent reinforcement learning based resource
management in MEC- and UAV-assisted vehicular networks,” IEEE J. Sel.
Areas Commun., vol. 39, no. 1, pp. 131–141, Jan. 2021.
[5] P. Dai, F. Song, K. Liu, Y. Dai, P. Zhou, and S. Guo, “Edge intelli-
gence for adaptive multimedia streaming in heterogeneous Internet of
Vehicles,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 1464–1478,
Mar. 2023.
[6] K. Liu, K. Xiao, P. Dai, V. C. Lee, S. Guo, and J. Cao, “Fog comput-
ing empowered data dissemination in software deﬁned heterogeneous
VANETs,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 20, no. 11, pp. 3181–3193,
Nov. 2021.
[7] C. Zhang et al., “Online approximation scheme for scheduling heteroge-
neous utility jobs in edge computing,” IEEE/ACM Trans. Netw., vol. 31,
no. 1, pp. 352–365, Feb. 2023.
[8] P. Dai, K. Hu, X. Wu, H. Xing, and Z. Yu, “Asynchronous deep rein-
forcement learning for data-driven task ofﬂoading in MEC-empowered
vehicular networks,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Commun., 2021,
pp. 1–10.
[9] X. Kong et al., “Deep reinforcement learning-based energy-efﬁcient edge
computing for Internet of Vehicles,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Inform., vol. 18,
no. 9, pp. 6308–6316, Sep. 2022.
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD DE VIGO. Downloaded on March 28,2024 at 13:24:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 15 =====
DAI et al.: META REINFORCEMENT LEARNING FOR MULTI-TASK OFFLOADING IN VEHICULAR EDGE COMPUTING
2137
[10] H. Shahzad and T. H. Szymanski, “A dynamic programming ofﬂoading
algorithm using biased randomization,” in Proc. IEEE 9th Int. Conf. Cloud
Comput., 2016, pp. 960–965.
[11] A. Ashok, P. Steenkiste, and F. Bai, “Vehicular cloud computing through
dynamic computation ofﬂoading,” Comput. Commun., vol. 120, pp. 125–
137, 2018.
[12] Z. Xiao et al., “Vehicular task ofﬂoading via heat-aware MEC cooperation
using game-theoretic method,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 7, no. 3,
pp. 2038–2052, Mar. 2020.
[13] M. Huang, W. Liu, T. Wang, A. Liu, and S. Zhang, “A cloud–MEC
collaborative task ofﬂoading scheme with service orchestration,” IEEE
Internet Things J., vol. 7, no. 7, pp. 5792–5805, Jul. 2020.
[14] Y. Wang, X. Hu, L. Guo, and Z. Yao, “Research on V2I/V2V hybrid
multi-hop edge computing ofﬂoading algorithm in IoV environment,” in
Proc. IEEE 5th Int. Conf. Intell. Transp. Eng., 2020, pp. 336–340.
[15] V. H. Hoang, T. M. Ho, and L. B. Le, “Mobility-aware computation
ofﬂoading in MEC-based vehicular wireless networks,” IEEE Commun.
Lett., vol. 24, no. 2, pp. 466–469, Feb. 2020.
[16] J. Long, Y. Luo, X. Zhu, E. Luo, and M. Huang, “Computation ofﬂoading
through mobile vehicles in IoT-edge-cloud network,” EURASIP J. Wirel.
Commun. Netw., vol. 2020, no. 1, pp. 1–21, 2020.
[17] Z. Kuang, Z. Ma, Z. Li, and X. Deng, “Cooperative computation ofﬂoading
and resource allocation for delay minimization in mobile edge computing,”
J. Syst. Architecture, vol. 118, 2021, Art. no. 102167.
[18] Z. Ning et al., “Deep reinforcement learning for intelligent Internet of
Vehicles: An energy-efﬁcient computational ofﬂoading scheme,” IEEE
Trans. Cogn. Commun. Netw., vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 1060–1072, Dec. 2019.
[19] C. Guo, L. Liang, and G. Y. Li, “Resource allocation for high-reliability
low-latency vehicular communications with packet retransmission,” IEEE
Trans. Veh. Technol, vol. 68, no. 7, pp. 6219–6230, Jul. 2019.
[20] T. Jin, W. Zheng, X. Wen, X. Chen, and L. Wang, “Optimization of com-
putation resource for container-based multi-MEC collaboration system,”
in Proc. IEEE 30th Annu. Int. Symp. Pers. Indoor Mobile Radio Commun.,
2019, pp. 1–7.
[21] J. Zhou, F. Wu, K. Zhang, Y. Mao, and S. Leng, “Joint optimization of
ofﬂoading and resource allocation in vehicular networks with mobile edge
computing,” in Proc. 10th Int. Conf. Wirel. Commun. Signal Process.,
2018, pp. 1–6.
[22] J. Zhang, W. Xia, F. Yan, and L. Shen, “Joint computation ofﬂoading and
resource allocation optimization in heterogeneous networks with mobile
edge computing,” IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 19 324–19 337, 2018.
[23] A. A. Al-Habob, A. Ibrahim, O. A. Dobre, and A. G. Armada, “Collision-
free sequential task ofﬂoading for mobile edge computing,” IEEE Com-
mun. Lett., vol. 24, no. 1, pp. 71–75, Jan. 2020.
[24] Y. Han, Z. Zhao, J. Mo, C. Shu, and G. Min, “Efﬁcient task ofﬂoading
with dependency guarantees in ultra-dense edge networks,” in Proc. IEEE
Glob. Commun. Conf., 2019, pp. 1–6.
[25] X. Xu, X. Zhang, X. Liu, J. Jiang, L. Qi, and M. Z. A. Bhuiyan, “Adaptive
computation ofﬂoading with edge for 5G-envisioned Internet of Connected
Vehicles,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 22, no. 8, pp. 5213–5222,
Aug. 2021.
[26] P. Dai, K. Hu, X. Wu, H. Xing, F. Teng, and Z. Yu, “A probabilistic ap-
proach for cooperative computation ofﬂoading in MEC-assisted vehicular
networks,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 23, no. 2, pp. 899–911,
Feb. 2022.
[27] Z. Ning et al., “When deep reinforcement learning meets 5G-enabled
vehicular networks: A distributed ofﬂoading framework for trafﬁc big
data,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 16, no. 2, pp. 1352–1361, Feb. 2020.
[28] R. Zhou et al., “Online task ofﬂoading for 5G small cell networks,” IEEE
Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 21, no. 6, pp. 2103–2115, Jun. 2022.
[29] Q. Qi et al., “Knowledge-driven service ofﬂoading decision for vehicular
edge computing: A deep reinforcement learning approach,” IEEE Trans.
Veh. Technol, vol. 68, no. 5, pp. 4192–4203, May 2019.
[30] X. Wang, Z. Ning, S. Guo, and L. Wang, “Imitation learning enabled task
scheduling for online vehicular edge computing,” IEEE Trans. Mobile
Comput., vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 598–611, Feb. 2022.
[31] Z. Yan, P. Cheng, Z. Chen, B. Vucetic, and Y. Li, “Two-dimensional
task ofﬂoading for mobile networks: An imitation learning framework,”
IEEE/ACM Trans. Netw., vol. 29, no. 6, pp. 2494–2507, Dec. 2021.
[32] Z. Xu, H. van Hasselt, and D. Silver, “Meta-gradient reinforcement learn-
ing,” in Proc. 32nd Int. Conf. Neural Inf. Process. Syst., Red Hook, NY,
USA: Curran Associates Inc., 2018, pp. 2402–2413.
[33] C. Finn, P. Abbeel, and S. Levine, “Model-agnostic meta-learning for fast
adaptation of deep networks,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Mach. Learn., 2017,
pp. 1126–1135.
[34] Y. Duan, J. Schulman, X. Chen, P. L. Bartlett, I. Sutskever, and P. Abbeel,
“RLˆ2: Fast reinforcement learning via slow reinforcement learning,”
2017. [Online]. Available: https://openreview.net/forum?id=HkLXCE9lx
[35] A. Gupta, R. Mendonca, Y. Liu, P. Abbeel, and S. Levine, “Meta-
reinforcement learning of structured exploration strategies,” in Proc. Int.
Conf. Neural Inf. Process. Syst., 2018, pp. 5307–5316.
[36] K. Rakelly, A. Zhou, C. Finn, S. Levine, and D. Quillen, “Efﬁcient off-
policy meta-reinforcement learning via probabilistic context variables,” in
Proc. 36th Int. Conf. Mach. Learn., 2019, pp. 5331–5340.
[37] J. Wang, J. Hu, G. Min, A. Y. Zomaya, and N. Georgalas, “Fast adaptive
task ofﬂoading in edge computing based on meta reinforcement learn-
ing,” IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst., vol. 32, no. 1, pp. 242–253,
Jan. 2021.
[38] D. Bahdanau, K. Cho, and Y. Bengio, “Neural machine translation by
jointly learning to align and translate,” 2014, arXiv:1409.0473.
[39] J. Schulman, F. Wolski, P. Dhariwal, A. Radford, and O. Klimov, “Proxi-
mal policy optimization algorithms,” 2017, arXiv: 1707.06347. [Online].
Available: http://arxiv.org/abs/1707.06347
[40] F. Suter, “DAGGEN: A synthetic task graph generator,” 2013. [Online].
Available: https://github.com/frs69wq/daggen
[41] J.Schulman,F.Wolski,P.Dhariwal,A.Radford,andO.Klimov,“Proximal
policy optimization algorithms,” 2017, arXiv:1707.06347.
[42] V.Mnihetal.,“Human-levelcontrolthroughdeepreinforcementlearning,”
Nature, vol. 518, no. 7540, pp. 529–533, Feb. 2015.
[43] R. K. Jain et al., “A quantitative measure of fairness and discrimination,”
Eastern Res. Lab., Digit. Equip. Corporation, Hudson, MA, USA, vol. 21,
1984.
[44] Data source: Vehicle trajectory, 2023. [Online]. Available: https://drive.
google.com/drive/folders/1Jot2LF1p8bvfgMJYUxccppfD6fgO6rfc
Penglin Dai (Member, IEEE) received the BS de-
gree in mathematics and applied mathematics and
the PhD degree in computer science from Chongqing
University, Chongqing, China, in 2012 and 2017, re-
spectively. He is currently an assistant professor with
the School of Information Science and Technology,
and the associate director of Research Center for
Intelligent Sensing, Southwest Jiaotong University,
Chengdu, China. His research interests include edge
computing, vehicular cyber-physical systems, and in-
telligent transportation systems.
Yaorong
Huang
received
the
BE
degree
in
economics from Southwest Jiaotong University,
Chengdu, China, in 2020, where he is currently
working toward the master’s degree with the School
of Computing and Artiﬁcial Intelligence, Southwest
Jiaotong University. His research interests include
vehicular networks and blockchain.
Kaiwen Hu received the BE degree in vehicle
engineering from Southwest Jiaotong University,
Chengdu, China, in 2019. He is currently a research
assistant with the School of Information Science and
Technology, Southwest Jiaotong University. His re-
search interests include vehicular networks and mo-
bile edge computing.
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD DE VIGO. Downloaded on March 28,2024 at 13:24:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


===== PAGE 16 =====
2138
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 23, NO. 3, MARCH 2024
Xiao Wu (Member, IEEE) received the BEng and MS
degrees in computer science from Yunnan Univer-
sity, Yunnan, China, in 1999 and 2002, respectively,
and the PhD degree in computer science from the
City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon Tong, Hong
Kong, in 2008. He is currently a professor and an
assistant dean with the School of Information Sci-
ence and Technology, Southwest Jiaotong University,
Chengdu, China. He was at the Institute of Software,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China, from
2001 to 2002. He was a research assistant and a senior
researchassociateattheCityUniversityofHongKong,HongKong,from2003to
2004, and 2007 to 2009, respectively. He was at the School of Computer Science,
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, USA, and also at the School of
Information and Computer Science, University of California, Irvine, CA, USA
as a visiting scholar from 2006 to 2007 and 2015 to 2016, respectively. He has
authored/co-authored more than 70 research papers in well-respected journals,
such as IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, IEEE Transactions on Multi-
media, IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging and prestigious proceedings like
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition and ACM Multimedia.
His research interests include artiﬁcial intelligence, multimedia information
retrieval, image/video computing, and computer vision. He received the Second
Prize of Natural Science Award of the Ministry of Education, China in 2016 and
the Second Prize of Science and Technology Progress Award of Henan Province,
China, in 2017.
Huanlai Xing (Member, IEEE) received the BEng
degree in communications engineering from South-
west Jiaotong University, Chengdu, China, in 2006,
the MSc degree in electromagnetic ﬁelds and wave-
length technology from the Beijing University of
Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing, China, in
2009, and the PhD degree in computer science from
the University of Nottingham, Nottingham, U.K., in
2013. He is an associate professor with the School
of Information Science and Technology, Southwest
Jiaotong University. His research interests include
evolutionary computation, cloud computing, multiobjective optimization, net-
work function virtualization, and software deﬁned networks. He has authored
and co-authored more than 30 peer-reviewed journal and conference papers. He
is a member of the ACM.
Zhaofei Yu (Member, IEEE) received the BS de-
gree from the Hong Shen Honors School, College of
Optoelectronic Engineering, Chongqing University,
Chongqing, China, in 2012, and the PhD degree from
the Automation Department, Tsinghua University,
Beijing, China, in 2017. He is currently an assistant
professor with the Institute for Artiﬁcial Intelligence,
Peking University, Beijing. His current research in-
terests include artiﬁcial intelligence, brain-inspired
computing, and computational neuroscience.
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD DE VIGO. Downloaded on March 28,2024 at 13:24:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
