

===== PAGE 1 =====
Citation: Jang, J.; Tulkinbekov, K.;
Kim, D.-H. Task Ofﬂoading of Deep
Learning Services for Autonomous
Driving in Mobile Edge Computing.
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223. https://
doi.org/10.3390/electronics12153223
Academic Editors: Jihoon Yang and
Unsang Park
Received: 29 June 2023
Revised: 19 July 2023
Accepted: 25 July 2023
Published: 26 July 2023
Copyright:
© 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
electronics
Article
Task Ofﬂoading of Deep Learning Services for Autonomous
Driving in Mobile Edge Computing
Jihye Jang, Khikmatullo Tulkinbekov and Deok-Hwan Kim *
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Inha University, Incheon 22212, Republic of Korea;
jihye@inha.edu (J.J.); 22202364@inha.edu (K.T.)
* Correspondence: deokhwan@inha.ac.kr; Tel.: +82-32-860-7424
Abstract: As the utilization of complex and heavy applications increases in autonomous driving,
research on using mobile edge computing and task ofﬂoading for autonomous driving is being
actively conducted. Recently, researchers have been studying task ofﬂoading algorithms using ar-
tiﬁcial intelligence, such as reinforcement learning or partial ofﬂoading. However, these methods
require a lot of training data and critical deadlines and are weakly adaptive to complex and dynam-
ically changing environments. To overcome this weakness, in this paper, we propose a novel task
ofﬂoading algorithm based on Lyapunov optimization to maintain the system stability and minimize
task processing delay. First, a real-time monitoring system is built to utilize distributed computing
resources in an autonomous driving environment efﬁciently. Second, the computational complexity
and memory access rate are analyzed to reﬂect the characteristics of the deep learning applications to
the task ofﬂoading algorithm. Third, Lyapunov and Lagrange optimization solves the trade-off issues
between system stability and user requirements. The experimental results show that the system
queue backlog remains stable, and the tasks are completed within an average of 0.4231 s, 0.7095 s,
and 0.9017 s for object detection, driver proﬁling, and image recognition, respectively. Therefore,
we ensure that the proposed task ofﬂoading algorithm enables the deep learning application to be
processed within the deadline and keeps the system stable.
Keywords: task ofﬂoading; task allocation and scheduling; deep learning services; autonomous
vehicle; Lyapunov optimization; Internet of Things (IoT)
1. Introduction
With the rapid development of artiﬁcial intelligence and autonomous driving technol-
ogy today, autonomous vehicles do not simply provide driving and control functions. It
is necessary to provide more complex and heavy tasks like applications that require deep
learning inference, such as identifying drivers or recognizing objects on the road [1].
High computational task processing requires abundant computing resources and
energy, but autonomous vehicles have limitations because the main energy source is a
battery. In addition, autonomous vehicles must minimize vehicle volume and weight to
maximize energy efﬁciency, so computing resources are naturally limited. Therefore, to
provide deep learning services in an autonomous driving environment, a server with more
energy and computing resources is required [2].
System designers can adopt a distributed computing architecture to handle high-
computation tasks in constrained mobile devices such as autonomous vehicles. In cloud
computing, a representative example of distributed computing, a cloud server with abun-
dant computing resources supplements the computational power of mobile devices to
enable load management and fast computational processing. However, the physical dis-
tance between the mobile user and the cloud server is very far, resulting in huge data
transmission delays and network costs, so it is unsuitable for an autonomous driving envi-
ronment. On the other hand, in mobile edge computing, edge clusters are located between
mobile users and cloud servers to compensate for the disadvantages of cloud computing.
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223. https://doi.org/10.3390/electronics12153223
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/electronics


===== PAGE 2 =====
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223
2 of 19
An edge cluster refers to a computing server consisting of small devices with limited
computing resources but richer than mobile devices. Edge clusters are located close to
mobile devices, reduce network latency and distribute the load by primarily processing
tasks and data. Therefore, mobile edge computing is being actively studied as a promising
solution for an autonomous driving environment [3].
When the edge cluster and cloud server process tasks instead of the mobile user in
mobile edge computing, it is called task ofﬂoading. The system can improve the service
experience of mobile users through task ofﬂoading by running deep learning applications
even with limitations of space, computing resources, and energy [4]. Task ofﬂoading brings
both proﬁts and costs because server conditions such as computing resource limitation,
data transfer delay, energy consumption, and network cost differ depending on which com-
puting server is selected as the target server. Therefore, when designing a task ofﬂoading
algorithm, it should be designed in consideration of the trade-off relationship between
proﬁts and costs and user requirements.
In particular, deep learning services used in autonomous driving are closely related to
safety, so they are sensitive to system stability and delay [5]. In addition, since the neural
network model and the transmission data are different for each service, the type and size
of computing resources required for task processing are also different. For example, a
driver proﬁling application typically used in autonomous driving uses time-series data
obtained from internal and external sensors of the vehicle, so it has lower network costs. As
another example, object detection application is characterized by the need to detect objects
in real-time by vehicle mobility and requires complex computing operations for image
data processing. Therefore, when task ofﬂoading of deep learning service is performed in
mobile edge computing for an autonomous driving environment, the ofﬂoading algorithm
must be designed considering the tasks’ characteristics and the servers’ status.
In previous studies, task ofﬂoading policies were studied from various perspectives.
Among the studies that subdivided and formulated ofﬂoading procedures to ofﬂoad
complex applications, Chen et al. proposed an ofﬂoading scheme that utilizes a software-
deﬁned network in ultra-dense networks [6]. This research saves 30% of battery life
and reduces latency by 20% in mobile devices compared to random and uniform task
ofﬂoading schemes. Alameddine et al. improve the runtime of instances by dividing the
ofﬂoading procedure into task allocation and execution order scheduling, considering the
requirements of ofﬂoaded tasks and limited functions of mobile edge computing [7].
Research on task ofﬂoading that reﬂects the characteristics of the autonomous driving
environment is also being actively conducted. Li formulated a task ofﬂoading problem in a
WiFi-cellular heterogeneous network environment and optimized the trade-off relationship
between ofﬂoading proﬁts and costs [8]. Liu proposed a task scheduling algorithm that
considers the vehicle’s mobility in an autonomous driving environment and the limited
computing resources of a mobile edge computing server to ensure that tasks were com-
pleted within a speciﬁed time [9]. However, these studies lack discussion on the deep
learning applications that are ofﬂoaded and real-time characteristics in autonomous driving
environments. Recently, researchers have been studying the ofﬂoading algorithm using
reinforcement learning. Reinforcement learning has the advantage that it can be used
without environmental information. But it requires a lot of training data and runtime. This
paper proposes a task ofﬂoading algorithm to keep the system stable and minimize delay
by monitoring the system status and analyzing the characteristics of deep learning services
used in autonomous driving to overcome this weakness.
Figure 1 shows the task ofﬂoading system of the deep learning services for autonomous
driving proposed in this paper. For task ofﬂoading of complex applications, the ofﬂoading
steps are subdivided into 1. real-time monitoring, 2. task analysis, and 3. optimal decision-
making. The ofﬂoading algorithm determines the best target server for processing the
requested task from the system stability and delay side.


===== PAGE 3 =====
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223
3 of 19
 
Figure 1. The architecture of the proposed task ofﬂoading system for autonomous driving.
The contributions of this work are as follows:
•
Considering the characteristics of deep learning applications for autonomous driving,
an ofﬂoading utility function is deﬁned.
•
A mobile edge computing architecture for the autonomous driving service is designed.
It consists of a driving simulator(mobile user), Kubernetes-based edge cluster(edge
server) and the remote server(cloud server).
•
A Lyapunov optimization based task ofﬂoading algorithm is proposed to optimize
the trade-off relationship between the system stability and the ofﬂoading utility. The
performance of task ofﬂoading is guaranteed by means of mathematically proving the
Lyapunov optimization framework.
•
The developed mobile edge computing architecture can be applied to real network
environment such as NVIDIA Jetson series embedded boards and an AWS cloud instance.
The remains of this paper are organized as follows. In Section 2, the trends in task
ofﬂoading research are described. Section 3 analyzes each deep learning services used
in autonomous driving to consider the characteristics to the task ofﬂoading algorithm.
Section 4 describes the proposed mobile edge computing architecture and deﬁnes the
system model and the ofﬂoading utility function using queue. Section 5 utilizes Lyapunov
optimization to optimize the trade-off relationship between system stability and user
requirements. Section 6 veriﬁes the performance of the proposed algorithm through
experiments. Finally, in Section 7, conclusions and future research are described.
2. Related Work
In an autonomous environment, task ofﬂoading is introduced to complement the
computing resource and space constraints of autonomous vehicles. Task ofﬂoading refers
to transferring an application or part thereof to a remote server with abundant computing
resources for processing and then returning a result to overcome the limitations of the
computing resources and calculation speed of the local device.
Although task ofﬂoading facilitates resource and load management for mobile users,
proﬁts and costs occur simultaneously in the system [10]. For example, when a mobile user
ofﬂoads a task to a cloud server, the cloud server has abundant computing resources and
processes high-computation tasks very quickly. However, the data transmission delay is
signiﬁcant due to a long physical distance from the mobile user. Conversely, if the task
is ofﬂoaded to the edge cluster, the edge cluster is physically close to the mobile user, so


===== PAGE 4 =====
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223
4 of 19
there is less data transmission delay. But the edge cluster has fewer computing resources,
so the work processing speed is slow. Therefore, system designers should consider the data
transfer delay, energy consumption, and network cost during task ofﬂoading and use a
task ofﬂoading algorithm optimized for the user’s requirements and system purpose.
Since mobile edge computing is distributed computing, there are various environ-
mental variables such as machine status, computing resource availability, and random
variables. If you observe and calculate all the environment variables, you can design a
perfect task ofﬂoading. The demonstration of the task ofﬂoading in between autonomous
vehicle and edge-computing infrastructure can be the good example of such varied vari-
ables [11]. However, it is impossible to know all the environmental variables that change
from moment to moment. Also, user requirements considered in task ofﬂoading have a
trade-off relationship, and there are various ways to optimize them. Many existing studies
have designed an ofﬂoading strategy based on the Markov decision process. It makes an
ofﬂoading decision by observing all probabilistic information of the system to optimize
the trade-off relationship and achieve an objective function [12,13]. The Markov decision
process performs the objective function by calculating and predicting the probability distri-
bution of the system and generally makes efﬁcient ofﬂoading decisions. Still, it is tough to
apply to stochastic environments such as actual mobile edge computing environments.
Recently, research is being conducted to make ofﬂoading decisions using artiﬁcial
intelligence [14]. There are methods for supervised learning by collecting vast amounts of
system data, but most ofﬂoading policies must be able to be deployed without knowing
system environment data. Therefore, research on ofﬂoading strategies using reinforcement
learning, which learns based on subjects, states, actions, and rewards deﬁned in an envi-
ronment rather than learning according to learning data, is being actively conducted [15].
However, reinforcement learning requires countless tries, data, and time and needs much
more in a complex stochastic environment. In addition, ﬁnding an analytic solution for
system optimization for reinforcement learning is complicated and difﬁcult.
On the other hand, Lyapunov optimization-based task ofﬂoading can make an ofﬂoad-
ing decision with only a small amount of observational information, such as queue backlog,
arrival data size, and server computing resources capability, even without knowing the
probability distribution of the system. Its simple algorithm makes it easy to deploy in
various environments. Moreover, it is possible to mathematically prove and formulate the
optimization and the task ofﬂoading step to ensure performance [16]. Therefore, we adopt
the Lyapunov optimization technique to optimize the trade-off relationship between proﬁt
and cost during task ofﬂoading.
3. Task Analysis for Deep Learning Applications
In this section, the neural network model structures and characteristics of deep learn-
ing applications for autonomous driving are analyzed to reﬂect on the task ofﬂoading
algorithm. We select three deep learning applications mainly used in autonomous driving
services and containerize and distribute them so they can be processed on edge clusters
and cloud servers. Driver proﬁling is one of the widely used applications that improves the
overall quality of autonomous driving. For this purpose, the time-series data from driver’s
response in different situations like changing lanes, taking a break or acceleration, taking
turns or emergencies are collected and used to improve the quality of autonomous driving.
Additionally, Image recognition is another popular application used in autonomous driv-
ing. Using a proper implementation of image recognition, autonomous driving vehicles
achieve to have features like following lates, auto-parking, detecting trafﬁc lights, object
tracking and overall scene understanding. The third popular application considered in
this research is object detection. Even though it seems object detection can be covered by
image recognition, the applied usage is totally different. While image recognition aims to
recognizing and categorizing the images on the environment, object detection focuses on
locating the speciﬁc object within the image and act. For example, using image recognition,
the lanes can be seen, and overall route of the autonomous vehicle can be planned. And


===== PAGE 5 =====
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223
5 of 19
using object detection application, the autonomous vehicles achieve to take actions like
changing lanes, navigation based on trafﬁc situation and collision avoidance.
In a mobile edge computing environment, model size, computational complexity, and
inference time must be considered when designing a neural network model to provide
deep learning services on mobile devices or embedded boards. Each deep learning service
has different input data, as shown in Table 1, and the structure of the neural network
model, so there are differences in required computing resources, inference time, and data
communication latency. So, it is necessary to analyze the characteristics of deep learning
applications and use them for task ofﬂoading algorithms.
Table 1. Input Data Type and Shape of Each Deep Learning Model.
Driver Proﬁling
Image Recognition
Object Detection
Data type
time-series data
image data
image data
Data shape
(40, 15)
(224, 224, 3)
(416, 416, 3)
According to ShufﬂeNet V2 [17], it is pointed out that most neural network model
performance evaluations rely on indirect metrics such as computational complexity like
FLOPs (Floating point operations), but performance such as inference speed is also related
to memory access and platform characteristics. Therefore, this research utilizes computa-
tional complexity and memory access rate to analyze the characteristics of each application
and uses lightweight deep learning applications widely used in autonomous driving. The
deep learning applications used in this paper are as follows:
•
Driver proﬁling: It is a deep learning application that identiﬁes the driver using scalar
data generated inside and outside the vehicle while driving. We use a lightweight
model using depthwise and sparse learning [18].
•
Image recognition: It is a deep learning application that recognizes images of the
driving view of a vehicle. We use Mobilenet V2, a lightweight version of MobileNet
by Google [19].
•
Object detection: It is a deep learning application that recognizes objects such as
people, vehicles, and trafﬁc lights and their positions by using the image of the driving
view of the vehicle. Based on the YOLOv3 model, a model customized and retrained
for the autonomous driving simulator environment is used [20].
3.1. Computational Complexity
In general, driver behavior recognition requires fewer computing resources because it
does not require image processing in deep learning inference. On the other hand, image
recognition and object detection use more computing resources because they use image
data. In particular, object detection uses a lot of computing resources because it divides
one image into numerous regions in the inference process, ﬁnds objects in each area, and
performs localization. Table 2 shows these analysis results by measuring the parameter
and FLOPs. The parameter means the number of parameters counted, and FLOPs implies
the number of ﬂoating-point operations performed when processing a neural network
model. These are generally proportional and are used as numerical values representing the
computational complexity of neural network models.
Table 2. The Computation Complexity of Each Deep Learning Inference.
Driver Proﬁling
Image Recognition
Object Detection
Parameters
119,832
3,538,984
65,252,682
FLOPs
0.233 MFLOPs
0.615 GFLOPs
6586 GFLOPs
3.2. Memory Access Rate
To analyze the memory access rate of each deep learning service, we ﬁrst examine
the lightweight process of each neural network model. Mobilenet V2, used for image


===== PAGE 6 =====
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223
6 of 19
recognition, reduces the memory space required during inference by not fully materializing
the intermediate tensor in the convolution module so that it can be utilized in embedded
hardware [18]. In other words, it is a lightweight model that reduces the frequency of
memory access in the previous model, Mobilenet V1. On the other hand, YOLOv3, used
for object detection, is a model developed with the purpose of real-time, and the model
used for driver proﬁling aims to reduce the amount of computation and the model size [19].
Therefore, it is judged that the memory access rate of image recognition will be small
according to the lightweight purpose.
3.3. Measurement of Computing Resource Utilization
Since embedded devices constituting an edge cluster have different computing re-
source limitations, their processing capabilities are also different. To compare and analyze
the characteristics of the three deep learning applications analyzed above, we measure
the computing resource limitations of each server and the required computing resources
for each task processing. Table 3 shows the computing resource limitations of each server.
Table 4 shows the required computing resources to process each task in Jetson AGX Xavier.
Table 3. Computing Resource Limitations of the Edge Cluster.
Xavier
TX2
Nano
RAM (MB)
39,927
7860
3964
CPU (MH/1 core)
1190 (8 cores)
345 (6 cores)
102 (4 cores)
GPU (MHz)
318
114
76
Table 4. Required Computing Resources for Each Deep Learning Inference.
Driver Proﬁling
Image Recognition
Object Detection
RAM (MB)
3012.34
4672.84
1782.56
CPU (MH/1 core)
123
66.98
46.05
GPU (MHz)
13.10
10.48
163.44
Most of the computing resource utilization is similar to the analysis results, but one
difference is that driver proﬁling uses more CPU and GPU than image recognition. It
is expected as a result of the design purpose of the neural network model. In [17], the
lightweight purpose of the driver proﬁling model is to reduce the size. On the other hand,
image recognition lightweight considers the model size and the utilization of comput-
ing resources. Also, it is developed to be optimized for Keras API so that computing
resource utilization can be minimized. Object detection uses much more GPU and less
CPU, depending on the inference process.
Deep learning services use more computing resources than general tasks, and the
required computing resources for each application are different. In addition, since mobile
edge computing consists of servers with various computing resource limitations, it is
important to assign appropriate servers to each task when ofﬂoading tasks. Therefore, the
computational complexity and memory access rate discussed above are transmitted to the
task ofﬂoading scheduler along with real-time and deadline constraints and are used for
ofﬂoading decisions.
4. System Model
In this section, we design a mobile edge computing that enables autonomous vehicles
to provide various deep learning applications to mobile users. The mobile edge computing
is modeled as a queuing system. Also, we deﬁne the ofﬂoading utility function reﬂecting
the characteristics of the tasks and various user requirements.


===== PAGE 7 =====
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223
7 of 19
4.1. Design of the Mobile Edge Computing
Figure 2 shows an overview of mobile edge computing for the autonomous driving
environment designed in this paper. Mobile edge computing consists of mobile devices,
edge clusters, and cloud servers. As shown in the ﬁgure, the edge cluster is constructed by
four Jetson embedded boards. For a better performance in running machine learning tasks,
AGX Xavier, TX2, and Nano boards are selected for their GPU and computing capabilities.
The edge cluster is constructed by a master (AGX Xavier) and workers. In the sample
environment, we have added one instance of each board as the worker. Master node
divides the task according to each board’s capabilities and computing power. In this way,
the edge cluster gets to achieve to execute different size tasks in heterogeneous environment.
Moreover, Amazon AWS instance is used for the cloud implementation. Autonomous
vehicles that request deep learning services are mobile users. An edge cluster is a collection
of embedded devices close to mobile users. A cloud server has abundant computing
resources located far from mobile users. When a deep learning service is requested from an
autonomous vehicle, the request is processed by the edge cluster or cloud server. When
multiple autonomous vehicles request deep learning services simultaneously, the request is
received in the form of a stream, so the queue concept is introduced in Section 3 to allocate
and manage tasks efﬁciently.
Figure 2. Mobile edge computing for autonomous driving environment.
To represent a mobile device, a game engine-based driving simulator CARLA (Car
Learning to Act) [21] is used to build a virtual environment such as a city, vehicle, and
people, as shown in Figure 3. It is designed to manage vehicle communication data between
autonomous driving modules through ROS (Robot OS) [22] Bridge. The deep learning task
request module is designed to transmit the requested service information to the external
static IP of the task receiver. Data required for deep learning inference is transmitted
through WebSocket bi-directional communication.
Deep learning applications on edge clusters are designed to be virtualized and ex-
ecuted in Linux containers to independently adjust various libraries and system envi-
ronments for each application [23]. Therefore, the edge cluster was designed using a
container orchestrator to facilitate the management of Linux container-type workloads and
services. Among various container orchestrators, this paper adopts Kubernetes [24]. As
an open-source platform, Kubernetes is highly deployable and scalable. In addition, it is
used in various studies because it can automatically schedule the cluster distribution of
components according to user requirements and automate conﬁguration, management,


===== PAGE 8 =====
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223
8 of 19
and failure handling [25–27]. A Kubernetes-based edge cluster consists of a master node
that controls the entire cluster and worker nodes that receive commands from the master
node and run actual services. A node is a worker machine in Kubernetes and can be a
virtual or physical machine depending on the cluster.
 
Figure 3. Autonomous driving environment using CARLA simulator and ROS.
Embedded boards are used to construct a physical machine in this research. When a
mobile device requests a task to the edge cluster, the master node monitors the state of the
edge cluster and selects an appropriate worker node for task processing according to the
scheduler and the strategy set by the user. Tasks are composed of Docker [28] containers
and deployed to worker nodes in pods, as shown in Figure 4.
 
Figure 4. Pod allocation in edge cluster.
A pod is the smallest unit of an application that can be deployed in Kubernetes and
is a collection of one or more Linux containers. A task is composed on several processes,
and the Linux container is not capable of residing more than one process. So, the pod is
employed as a smallest unit that packs several containers in higher level abstraction. A
pod is created only when a server receives a task that has never been executed, and the
pod continues to exist after that. After the pod is created, a WebSocket server is opened for


===== PAGE 9 =====
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223
9 of 19
data communication. When the task is ﬁnished, the WebSocket connection is disconnected.
Then, if a request for the same task comes in, the WebSocket is reconnected.
Kubernetes uses an internal virtual network to manage pod deployment and provide
functions between applications. Figure 5 shows the internal network of the edge cluster
designed in this paper. Through Service and Kube-proxy, the internal network supports pod
allocation and connection according to each task. Service is a network service function that
exposes an application running in Kubernetes as a ﬁxed endpoint for external connectivity
or supports load balancing between pods.
 
Figure 5. The internal network of edge cluster.
Since the cloud server has abundant computing resources and must be located away
from mobile devices, it is built using a deep learning instance of AWS(Amazon Web Service).
When a mobile device requests a task to the cloud server, the cloud server processes the
task by creating a sub-process that loads the neural network model for the task.
4.2. Queueing Model
Figure 6 shows mobile edge computing as a queuing system. The notations are shown
in Table 5. The system operates in discrete time and uses time slot ∆t. Each component of
the system is as follows:
•
Arrival: The amount of deep learning service workload requested by an autonomous
vehicle at time t. It is deﬁned as ai(t). i is the task number. The requested operations
are independent and identically distributed with each other. The expected value of
the arrival for each task is deﬁned as E{a1(t)} = λ1, E{a2(t)} = λ2, E{a3(t)} = λ3.
•
Queue backlog: It refers to a load of unprocessed tasks at time t waiting to be ofﬂoaded
to the target server after a task is requested. It is deﬁned as Qi(t). There is a data
queue for buffering the ofﬂoading data for each task. At t = 0, the queue backlog is
assumed to be zero. Qi(0) = 0
•
Departure: It refers to the amount of task that is ofﬂoaded to the server and processed
at time t. It is deﬁned as bi(t). Departure is determined by the task ofﬂoading
algorithm and the server situation.
•
Server: A server that can process the requested tasks. It is deﬁned as Sj. j is the server
number. In this system, server means the embedded devices constitute the edge cluster
and cloud servers.
Qi(t + 1) = max[Qi(t) −bi(t), 0] + ai(t)
(1)


===== PAGE 10 =====
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223
10 of 19
 
Figure 6. Queueing system model.
Table 5. The List of Main Notations.
Notation
Description
i
task number
M
the number of tasks
j
server number
ai(t)
arrival data at time slot t
bi(t)
departure data at time slot t
Qi(t)
queue backlog at time slot t
Sj
server
λi
the value of time average of arrival
U(t)
ofﬂoading utility function
P(t)
ofﬂoading proﬁt function
C(t)
ofﬂoading cost function
Dt
transmission delay
De
execution delay
α
weight parameter of task ofﬂoading proﬁt
dr
size of inference result data
β
parameter of task characteristics
BW
network bandwidth
Rcapa
computing resource capability
vi
Lagrange multiplier
Equation (1) is the queuing dynamics equation that predicts the amount of queue
backlog at the next time slot t + 1 by adding the number of arrivals entering the queue and
subtracting the number of departures leaving the queue at the time slot t.
4.3. Ofﬂoading Utility Function
In this paper, task ofﬂoading is deﬁned as transferring tasks between mobile devices
and edge clusters or cloud servers by mapping mobile devices to local devices and edge
clusters and cloud servers to remote servers.
Figure 7 shows the overview of the proposed task ofﬂoading. Autonomous vehicles,
which are mobile devices, request multiple tasks simultaneously. Receiving server in the
task ofﬂoading scheduler receives the stream-type task requests and allocates them to each
ofﬂoading queue. Then the tasks wait until serviced. At this same time, the task ofﬂoading
scheduler analyzes the tasks’ characteristics and collects the edge servers’ status using real-
time monitoring. In conclusion, at the ofﬂoading decision-making step, the task processing
deadline, computation complexity, memory access rate, and available computing resources
of the computing server are considered to select the optimal task ofﬂoading target server
using the Lyapunov optimization framework.


===== PAGE 11 =====
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223
11 of 19
Figure 7. Overview of the proposed task ofﬂoading.
Task ofﬂoading has the proﬁt of reducing the load on the server, but at the same time,
costs such as latency and lack of computing resources. We deﬁne a proﬁt function for
ofﬂoading workloads and a cost function regarding latency and delay time.
The proﬁt function is deﬁned as P(t), as shown in Equation (2). A diminishing returns
function is used [29]. α is the weight parameter.
P(t) = αlog[1 + bi(t)]
(2)
The delay caused by the task ofﬂoading can be classiﬁed into transmission delay and
computing delay according to each characteristic and is deﬁned as follows:
(1)
Transmission delay: It means the network delay time by data transmission and is
deﬁned as (3). bi(t) means the size of ofﬂoading workload to be processed by being
ofﬂoaded to the server, and dr means the data size of the inference result. BW means
network bandwidth.
Dt(t) = bi(t) + dr
BW
(3)
(2)
Execution delay: It means the computation time by executing the deep learning service
and is deﬁned as in (4). β is a parameter reﬂecting the computational complexity and
memory access rate of the deep learning service, and Rcapa represents the computing
resource capability of the computing server.
De(t) = bi(t)·β
Rcapa
(4)
The total ofﬂoading cost is the sum of all delay functions caused and is deﬁned as (5).
C(t) = Dt(t) + De(t)
(5)


===== PAGE 12 =====
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223
12 of 19
Therefore, the task ofﬂoading utility function is deﬁned as (6).
U(t) = P(t) −C(t)
(6)
5. Lyapunov Optimization Framework for Task Ofﬂoading
We propose a Lyapunov-based task ofﬂoading framework to solve a trade-off between
system stability and the ofﬂoading utility with the delay constraints and computing re-
source limitations. In this section, we deﬁne the Lyapunov drift function and establish
a trade-off relationship between system stabilization and the objective function with the
Lyapunov optimization framework.
5.1. An Optimization Problem of Trade-Off Issues
This paper aims to design a task ofﬂoading algorithm that maximizes the utility of
task ofﬂoading while keeping the system stable. System stabilization can be satisﬁed
by maintaining the queue backlog, so it does not diverge. User requirements can be
achieved by maximizing the task ofﬂoading utility function. Therefore, the ﬁnal goal of
task ofﬂoading in this research is shown in (7) and (8).
max

lim
T→∞
1
T ∑
T−1
t=0 E{U(t)}

(7)
s.t. lim sup
t→∞
1
t ∑
t−1
τ=0 E
n
∑
M
i=1 Qi(τ)
o
< ∞
(8)
To provide various deep learning services in an autonomous driving environment, task
ofﬂoading aims to maximize the utility of task ofﬂoading with system stability. However,
there is a trade-off between system stabilization and maximization of the task ofﬂoading
utility. Therefore, this paper uses the Lyapunov optimization framework to optimize this
trade-off relationship. Lyapunov optimization-based task ofﬂoading algorithms are easy
to deploy in various environments because of their simple algorithms. Also, it has the
advantage of systematically formulating the ofﬂoading step and guaranteeing performance
because mathematical proof is possible [15].
Lyapunov optimization is an observational information-based framework, so it derives
its algorithm based on the current queue backlog, i.e., the number of tasks to be processed.
Therefore, the Lyapunov function L(t) and the Lyapunov drift function ∆(L(t)) at time
t are deﬁned as (9) and (10), respectively. Equation (9) is a function that determines how
much of the current ofﬂoading workload remains at time t. Equation (10) is a function used
to evaluate system stability by predicting the Lyapunov function at time t + 1 based on the
currently observable values. Q(t) = Q1(t), Q2(t), . . . , QM(t), where i is the task number
and M is the maximum number of tasks.
L(t) ≜1
2 ∑
M
i=1
n
Qi(t)2o
(9)
∆(L(t)) ≜E{L(t + 1) −L(t)|Q(t)}
(10)
To consider the maximization of the work ofﬂoading utility, we deﬁne the Lyapunov
drift-plus-penalty function L as shown in (11) by adding a penalty term. V is a trade-off
parameter representing the trade-off relationship.
L = ∆(L(t)) −VE{U(t)|Q(t)}
(11)
Finally, the task ofﬂoading algorithm based on the Lyapunov optimization framework
determines the computing server that minimizes (11) as the ofﬂoading target server. Mini-
mizing (11) means reducing the left term, meaning system stabilization, and maximizing
the right term, meaning task ofﬂoading utility simultaneously.


===== PAGE 13 =====
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223
13 of 19
5.2. Derive the Optimal Solution
Theorem 1. Lyapunov drift function upper bound.
For any trade-off non-negative parameter V and any possible decision of ofﬂoading workload, the
Lyapunov drift function has the upper bound, as shown (12).
L = ∆(L(t)) −VE{U(t)|Q(t)} ≤B +
M
∑
i=1
Qi(t)(ai(t) −bi(t)) −VE{U(t)|Q(t)}
(12)
where B = 1
2 ∑M
i=1

ai(t)2 + bi(t)2
.
Proof of Theorem 1. Equation (10) is expanded by (1) as follows:
∆(L(t)) ≜E{L(t + 1) −L(t)|Q(t)} = E
n
Qi(t + 1)2 −Qi(t)2Q(t)
o
= E
n
(max[Qi(t) −bi(t), 0] + ai(t))2 −Qi(t)2Q(t)
o
The terms inside the expectation hold the following inequality:
(max[Qi(t) −bi(t), 0] + ai(t))2 −Qi(t)2 ≤(Qi(t) −bi(t))2 + ai(t)2 + 2ai(t)Qi(t)
By expanding (10) according to the above inequality relationship, the ﬁnite constant B
is deﬁned, and by substituting it into (11), the upper limit of (12) can be obtained:
∆(L(t)) ≤1
2
M
∑
i=1

ai(t)2 + bi(t)2
+
M
∑
i=1
Qi(t)(ai(t) −bi(t)) ≤B +
M
∑
i=1
Qi(t)(ai(t) −bi(t))
where B = 1
2 ∑M
i=1

ai(t)2 + bi(t)2
.
The Lyapunov drift-plus-penalty function minimization problem is deﬁned as (13).
And the optimization problem F is deﬁned as (14) by Theorem 1 and
min(B + ∑
M
i=1 Qi(t)(ai(t) −bi(t)) −VE{U(t)|Q(t)})
(13)
F : max(∑
M
i=1 Qi(t)bi(t) + VE{U(t)|Q(t)}),
s.t.0 ≤bi(t) ≤min[ai(t) + Qi(t), bmax
i
(t)]
(14)
The second partial derivative of F to bi(t) is negative, so F is a convex function. In
addition, as in (14), since a simultaneous inequality condition exists for bi(t), the Lagrange
optimization method is used to ﬁnd the optimal solution of bi(t). The Lagrange function
h(bi(t), vi) using the Lagrange multiplier vi = {v1, v2, . . . , vI} is deﬁned as in (15).
h(bi(t), vi) = V

∑
M
i=1 U(t)

+ ∑
M
i=1 Qi(t)bi(t)
−∑
M
i=1 vi(bi(t) −min[ai(t) + Qi(t), bmax
i
(t)])
(15)
Equation (15) has necessary and sufﬁcient conditions such as (16), (17), and (18) by the
Karush-Kuhn Tucker condition [30]. By expanding (16), the optimal solution of the optimal
solution of bi(t) as shown in (19).
∂h(bi(t), vi)
∂bi(t)
= 0
(16)
vi∗∂h(bi(t), vi)
∂vi
= 0
(17)


===== PAGE 14 =====
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223
14 of 19
vi ≥0
(18)
bi(t) =
Vα
G ln 2 −1, where G = V
 1
BW +
1
Rcapa

+ vi −Qi(t)
(19)
The task ofﬂoading algorithm observes Qi(t) and Rcapa and receives β, dr, and BW
from task analysis. The task ofﬂoading scheduler distributes each task to a queue when
a stream type task request comes in and schedules tasks with real-time characteristics to
be ofﬂoaded ﬁrst. When determining the optimal computing server, the task ofﬂoading
algorithm calculates (14) and determines the server with the maximum value. □
6. Task Ofﬂoading Algorithm
In this section, we propose a new task ofﬂoading algorithm using Lyapunov optimiza-
tion, which considers the system stability and ofﬂoading utility function.
Figure 8 shows the ﬂowchart of the proposed task ofﬂoading algorithm. The following
describes the process of task ofﬂoading in detail.
 
Figure 8. The proposed task ofﬂoading algorithm.
Step 1.
Receive a task request: When a mobile user requests a deep learning service, the
user sends a task request to the receiving server of the task ofﬂoading scheduler. In
an actual mobile edge computing system, mobile users send multiple task requests
simultaneously. Our task ofﬂoading algorithm is executed each time a task request
is received.
Step 1.1.
Task analysis: Then the task ofﬂoading scheduler analyzes the characteris-
tics of the task. The computational complexity and the real-time characteristic
are considered.
Step 1.2.
Real-time monitoring: In this step, the status of the computing server, such
as computing resource utilization and the amount of loads, is monitored. Some
computing servers are not suitable for ofﬂoading target servers because they
lack available computing resources and are expected to miss task processing
deadlines due to load.
Step 1.3.
Calculate ofﬂoading utility function: The ofﬂoading utility function that
we deﬁned in Section 4 is calculated. This value and the queue backlog are
used to calculate the Lyapunov optimization framework.
Step 1.4.
Calculate Lyapunov drift-plus-penalty function.


===== PAGE 15 =====
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223
15 of 19
Step 1.5.
Select the server that has minimum Lyapunov drift-plus-penalty function:
The Lyapunov drift-plus-penalty function is calculated to search the optimal
ofﬂoading target server. The optimal ofﬂoading target server should have
the minimum value of this function. Therefore, the optimal ofﬂoading target
server is selected by the task ofﬂoading scheduler.
[If the ofﬂoading target is the cloud server]
Step 2. Ofﬂoad the task to the cloud server: If the target server is the cloud server, the task
is processed as a containerized application in a sub-process. Firstly, the task request
is ofﬂoaded to the cloud server. The cloud server makes a sub-process to run the
containerized application and opens a WebSocket server to communicate with the
mobile user.
[If the ofﬂoading target is in the edge cluster]
Step 3.
Ofﬂoad the task to target server in edge cluster: If the target server is in the
Kubernetes-based edge cluster, the task is processed as a containerized application in
a pod. The master node creates pods to perform tasks on worker nodes, only creating
new pod for the task that have never been performed before. If the requested work
has been performed before on the target worker node, the previously created pod
will run to process the requested work. After a pod is allocated in the target worker
node, the containerized application opens a WebSocket server to communicate with
the mobile user.
Step 4.
User connects to the WebSocket server and sends the input data to run the
inferences. The results of deep learning inference are received. (bi-directional commu-
nication): Then the mobile user connects to the WebSocket server and sends the input
data for deep learning inferences. The results of the deep learning inferences are trans-
mitted to the user simultaneously using the bi-directional communication method.
From step 0 to step 1.5 represents the modules of task ofﬂoading determining the
ofﬂoading target server. These steps consist of real-time monitoring and simple calculations
of ofﬂoading utility and drift-plus-penalty functions. As in (6), the ofﬂoading utility
function is asymptotically notated as the sum of a log function and linear function of given
ofﬂoading workload.
As shown in (12), the Lyapunov drift-plus-penalty function has its own upper bound.
The upper bound of Lyapunov drift-plus-penalty function is a linear combination of
ofﬂoading workload.
From step 2 to step 5 represents how the tasks are ofﬂoaded and processed in each
target server. To reduce the time complexity of this proposed algorithm, we use caching and
WebSocket communication to reduce deep learning model loading time and communication
latency. Also, to perform the tasks that are occurred simultaneously, the cloud server creates
sub-processes in parallel, and the edge cluster manages the pod allocation.
7. Experiments
In this section, we measure the average value of queue backlog, offloading utility, and
system delay over time to evaluate the performance of the proposed task offloading algorithm.
7.1. Experimental Setup
Since the proposed task ofﬂoading algorithm optimizes the trade-off relationship
between system stability and ofﬂoading utility, its performance is veriﬁed by measuring
the queue backlog, ofﬂoading utility, and system delay over time. Queue backlog and
ofﬂoading utility are calculated and measured according to the system model deﬁned in
Section 3. System delay is measured to verify ofﬂoading performance by measuring the
total delay from requesting a task to receiving the inference result.
We compare the performance of the proposed method with a random scheduling
and a previous study of using Kubernetes scheduler-based ofﬂoading [31]. The random
scheduling is a basic ofﬂoading method that randomly assigns ofﬂoading workloads to


===== PAGE 16 =====
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223
16 of 19
servers. In [31], the authors propose a Kubernetes scheduler-based ofﬂoading method that
considers a computing server’s limit and GPU capacity when processing neural network
services in mobile edge computing.
The workload samples for all experiments are created using dbbench, a workload
generator program. To evaluate the performance in various scenarios, we generate the
workload samples by controlling the generation frequency as 40 input data sets/s and
80 input data sets/s. The types of requested tasks are all randomly generated. Also, to
consider scenarios that may occur in real autonomous driving environment, we generate
workload samples with a high density of speciﬁc task requests. We average the results by
repeating the experiments three times in the same environment.
The mobile edge computing environment introduced in Section 4 is used for ex-
periments. CARLA, a virtual urban driving simulator, and ROS are used to build an au-
tonomous driving environment and to transmit data between virtual vehicles and cities [32].
The hardware and software speciﬁcations are shown in Table 6. This paper uses the bench-
marking result of Nvidia Jetson series embedded devices to build an edge cluster using
small devices with various computing resources [33]. As a result, Nvidia Jetson AGX
Xavier, TX2, and Nano are selected, and their speciﬁcations are shown in Table 7. The cloud
server consists of a front server and the sub-processes by utilizing AWS deep learning
instance to implement a physically distant server with abundant computing resources. The
front server receives ofﬂoading requests and a sub-process that provides deep learning
inference service.
Table 6. Environmental Setup of the Mobile User.
Hardware
Software
CPU: Intel Core i5-7500
CARLA Simulator version: 0.9.10
GPU: GeForce GTX 1080 8G
RAM: 32 GB
ROS version: Noetic
Table 7. Environmental Setup of the Edge Cluster.
Xavier
TX2
Nano
RAM: 16 GB LPDDR4
RAM: 8 GB LPDDR4
RAM: 4 GB LPDDR4
CPU: 8-core ARMv8.2
8 MB L2 + 4 MB L3
CPU: 4-core ARM A57
2 MB L2 + HMP Dual
Denver 2/2 MB L2
CPU: Quad-core ARM cortex-57
GPU: 512-core Volta with
Tensor Core
GPU: 256-core Pascal
GPU: 128-core Maxell
7.2. System Stability Evaluation
Figure 9 shows a graph of queue backlog over time when the workload generating
frequency is 40 input data sets/s. The proposed task ofﬂoading results show that the
queue load increases because tasks are accumulated in the queue, and it takes time to
load the neural network model for several seconds. However, after that, it remains stable
and prevents divergence. Random scheduling fails to account for dynamically changing
computing resources, causing queue backlog to diverge within seconds. In particular, in the
case of Kubernetes scheduler-based ofﬂoading, it cannot efﬁciently allocate the concurrently
requested tasks, so pending pods occur. Pending is a state in which tasks are not processed
until the worker nodes’ availability is conﬁrmed, so the system is unstable, and the deadline
cannot be guaranteed.


===== PAGE 17 =====
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223
17 of 19
 
Figure 9. Queue backlog over time (40 input data sets/s).
7.3. Ofﬂoading Utility Evaluation
The workload samples for ofﬂoading utility evaluation are same as that are used in the
system stability evaluation. As shown in Figure 10, the ofﬂoading utility value periodically
increases and then decreases over time. It is because we set the trade-off parameter V to
give more importance to system stability. System designer can control V to determine the
importance of queue backlog and ofﬂoading utility.
 
Figure 10. Ofﬂoading utility over time.
7.4. System Delay Evaluation
Deep learning services used in autonomous driving environments must complete
tasks within the deadline for user safety. In the case of object detection, since an object on
the front side must be detected in real-time during autonomous driving, the task must be
completed within 0.6 s, and driver proﬁling and image recognition must also be provided
within 1 s. End-to-end delay is the total delay from when a user requests a task to receive
the result of the task, i.e., the time it takes to complete. End-to-end delay is the sum of
queuing delay, pod allocation delay, transmission delay, and execution delay.
Table 8 shows the average value of the end-to-end delay for 20 experiments. In the case
of the proposed method, object detection with real-time characteristics takes 0.4231 s for
each request, and driver proﬁling and image recognition complete the task within 0.7095 s
and 0.9017 s, respectively. Therefore, the proposed task ofﬂoading algorithm conﬁrms that
deep learning applications can be efﬁciently utilized in real-time in an autonomous driving


===== PAGE 18 =====
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223
18 of 19
environment. About Kubernetes-based scheduling and random scheduling, the end-to-end
time of all the tasks are huge because of the pending issue.
Table 8. End-to-end Delay of each Deep Learning Service During Task Ofﬂoading.
Driver Proﬁling
Image Recognition
Object Detection
Proposed method
0.7095 s
0.9017 s
0.4231 s
Kubernetes-based scheduling
4.6322 s
8.6410 s
5.3642 s
Random scheduling
6.3836 s
7.3792 s
14.3258 s
8. Conclusions
This paper proposed a task ofﬂoading algorithm for deep learning services to keep the
system stable and minimize task processing delay in an autonomous driving environment.
We design mobile edge computing for the autonomous driving environment and a real-
time server monitoring system to efﬁciently utilize distributed computing resources. For
simulating the real-life cases, embedded devices are used by orchestrating the hardware
resources using Kubernetes. To achieve the purpose of system stability and delay minimiza-
tion, we deﬁne the task ofﬂoading utility and analyze the characteristics of deep learning
applications. As of being popular applications used in autonomous driving, this research
selected driver proﬁling, image recognition and object detection for testing purposes. To
solve the optimization problem, the task ofﬂoading steps are systematically formulated
using Lyapunov optimization and Lagrange optimization framework. Further evaluations
were performed to prove the advantage of proposed system over existing approaches.
The experimental results conﬁrm that the queue backlog is stable and does not diverge.
Object detection application is completed within an average of 0.4231 s, driver proﬁling
within an average of 0.7095 s, and image recognition within an average of 0.9017 s. We
ensure that the proposed task ofﬂoading algorithm enables deep learning applications
to be processed within the deadline and maintains the system stably in an autonomous
driving environment.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, J.J. and K.T.; methodology, J.J.; software, J.J.; validation,
J.J., K.T. and D.-H.K.; formal analysis, D.-H.K.; investigation, K.T.; resources, D.-H.K.; data cura-
tion, J.J. and K.T.; writing—original draft preparation, J.J. and K.T.; writing—review and editing,
D.-H.K.; visualization, J.J. and D.-H.K.; supervision, D.-H.K.; project administration, D.-H.K.; funding
acquisition, D.-H.K. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This work was supported in part by the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF)
Grant funded by the Korean Government (MSIT) under Grant NRF-2021R1F1A1050750 and in part
by the Inha university research grant.
Data Availability Statement: Data is not available for this research.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1.
Hussain, R.; Zeadally, S. Autonomous cars: Research results, issues, and future challenges. IEEE Commun. Surv. Tutor. 2018, 21,
1275–1313. [CrossRef]
2.
Liu, L.; Lu, S.; Zhong, R.; Wu, B.; Yao, Y.; Zhang, Q.; Shi, W. Computing systems for autonomous driving: State of the art and
challenges. IEEE Internet Things J. 2020, 8, 6469–6486. [CrossRef]
3.
Liu, L.; Zhao, M.; Yu, M.; Jan, M.A.; Lan, D.; Taherkordi, A. Mobility-aware multi-hop task ofﬂoading for autonomous driving in
vehicular edge computing and networks. IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst. 2022, 24, 2169–2182. [CrossRef]
4.
Ahmed, M.; Raza, S.; Mirza, M.A.; Aziz, A.; Khan, M.A.; Khan, W.U.; Li, J.; Han, Z. A Survey on Vehicular Task Ofﬂoading:
Classiﬁcation, Issues, and Challenges. J. King Saud Univ.-Comput. Inf. Sci. 2022, 34, 4135–4162. [CrossRef]
5.
Stilgoe, J. Machine learning, social learning and the governance of self-driving cars. Soc. Stud. Sci. 2018, 48, 25–56. [CrossRef]
6.
Chen, M.; Hao, Y. Task ofﬂoading for mobile edge computing in software deﬁned ultra-dense network. IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun.
2018, 36, 587–597. [CrossRef]
7.
Alameddine, H.A.; Sharafeddine, S.; Sebbah, S.; Ayoubi, S.; Assi, C. Dynamic task ofﬂoading and scheduling for low-latency IoT
services in multi-access edge computing. IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun. 2019, 37, 668–682. [CrossRef]


===== PAGE 19 =====
Electronics 2023, 12, 3223
19 of 19
8.
Li, Y.; Xia, S.; Zheng, M.; Cao, B.; Liu, Q. Lyapunov optimization based trade-off policy for mobile cloud ofﬂoading in
heterogeneous wireless networks. IEEE Trans. Cloud Comput. 2019, 10, 491–505. [CrossRef]
9.
Liu, Q.; Chen, Z.; Wu, J.; Deng, Y.; Liu, K.; Wang, L. An efﬁcient task scheduling strategy utilizing mobile edge computing in
autonomous driving environment. Electronics 2019, 8, 1221. [CrossRef]
10.
Zhang, J.; Hu, X.; Ning, Z.; Ngai, E.C.-H.; Zhou, L.; Wei, J.; Cheng, J.; Hu, B. Energy-latency tradeoff for energy-aware ofﬂoading
in mobile edge computing networks. IEEE Internet Things J. 2017, 5, 2633–2645. [CrossRef]
11.
Liu, S.; Wang, J.; Wang, Z.; Yu, B.; Hu, W.; Liu, Y.; Tang, J.; Song, S.L.; Liu, C.; Hu, Y. Brief Industry Paper: The Necessity of
Adaptive Data Fusion in Infrastructure-Augmented Autonomous Driving System. In Proceedings of the 2022 IEEE 28th Real-Time
and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium (RTAS), Milano, Italy, 4–6 May 2022; pp. 293–296. [CrossRef]
12.
Terefe, M.B.; Lee, H.; Heo, N.; Fox, G.C.; Oh, S. Energy-efﬁcient multisite ofﬂoading policy using Markov decision process for
mobile cloud computing. Pervasive Mob. Comput. 2016, 27, 75–89. [CrossRef]
13.
Yang, G.; Hou, L.; He, X.; He, D.; Chan, S.; Guizani, M. Ofﬂoading time optimization via Markov decision process in mobile-edge
computing. IEEE Internet Things J. 2020, 8, 2483–2493. [CrossRef]
14.
Islam, A.; Debnath, A.; Ghose, M.; Chakraborty, S. A survey on task ofﬂoading in multi-access edge computing. J. Syst. Arch.
2021, 118, 102225. [CrossRef]
15.
Li, C.; Xia, J.; Liu, F.; Li, D.; Fan, L.; Karagiannidis, G.K.; Nallanathan, A. Dynamic ofﬂoading for multiuser muti-CAP MEC
networks: A deep reinforcement learning approach. IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol. 2021, 70, 2922–2927. [CrossRef]
16.
Neely, M.J. Stochastic network optimization with application to communication and queueing systems. Synth. Lect. Commun.
Netw. 2010, 3, 1–211.
17.
Ma, N.; Zhang, X.; Zheng, H.T.; Sun, J. Shufﬂenet v2: Practical guidelines for efﬁcient cnn architecture design. In Proceedings of
the European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), Munich, Germany, 8–14 September 2018.
18.
Ullah, S.; Kim, D.-H. Lightweight driver behavior identiﬁcation model with sparse learning on in-vehicle can-bus sensor data.
Sensors 2020, 20, 5030. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
19.
Sandler, M.; Howard, A.; Zhu, M.; Zhmoginov, A.; Chen, L.C. Mobilenetv2: Inverted residuals and linear bottlenecks.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Salt Lake City, UT, USA, 18–23 June 2018.
20.
Redmon, J.; Farhadi, A. Yolov3: An incremental improvement. arXiv 2018, arXiv:1804.02767.
21.
Dosovitskiy, A.; Ros, G.; Codevilla, F.; Lopez, A.; Koltun, V. CARLA: An open urban driving simulator. In Proceedings of the
Conference on Robot Learning, Mountain View, CA, USA, 13–15 November 2017.
22.
Lee, H.-G.; Kim, D.-H. AUTOWARE linkage and MPC control using virtual simulator CARLA. KINGPC 2021, 363–366.
23.
Felter, W.; Ferreira, A.; Rajamony, R.; Rubio, J. An updated performance comparison of virtual machines and linux containers.
In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE International Symposium on Performance Analysis of Systems and Software (ISPASS), Philadel-
phia, PA, USA, 29–31 March 2015.
24.
Hoque, S.; De Brito, M.S.; Willner, A.; Keil, O.; Magedanz, T. Towards container orchestration in fog computing infrastructures.
In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE 41st Annual Computer Software and Applications Conference (COMPSAC), Turin, Italy, 4–8 July
2017; Volume 2.
25.
Zhong, Z.; Buyya, R. A cost-efﬁcient container orchestration strategy in kubernetes-based cloud computing infrastructures with
heterogeneous resources. ACM Trans. Internet Technol. 2020, 20, 1–24. [CrossRef]
26.
Fu, Y.; Zhang, S.; Terrero, J.; Mao, Y.; Liu, G.; Li, S.; Tao, D. Progress-based container scheduling for short-lived applications in a
kubernetes cluster. In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE International Conference on Big Data (Big Data), Los Angeles, CA, USA, 9–12
December 2019.
27.
Casalicchio, E. Container Orchestration: A Survey. In Systems Modeling: Methodologies and Tools; Springer: Cham, Switzerland,
2018; pp. 221–235.
28.
Merkel, D. Docker: Lightweight linux containers for consistent development and deployment. Linux J. 2014, 239, 2.
29.
Shephard, R.W.; Färe, R. The law of diminishing returns. In Production Theory; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 1974;
pp. 287–318.
30.
Boyd, S.P.; Vandenberghe, L. Convex Optimization; Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, UK, 2004.
31.
Kim, J.; Ullah, S.; Kim, D.-H. GPU-based embedded edge server conﬁguration and ofﬂoading for a neural network service.
J. Supercomput. 2021, 77, 8593–8621. [CrossRef]
32.
Lee, H.-G.; Kang, D.-H.; Kim, D.-H. Human–Machine Interaction in Driving Assistant Systems for Semi-Autonomous Driving
Vehicles. Electronics 2021, 10, 2405. [CrossRef]
33.
Ullah, S.; Kim, D.-H. Benchmarking Jetson Platform for 3D Point-Cloud and Hyper-Spectral Image Classiﬁcation. In Proceedings
of the 2020 IEEE International Conference on Big Data and Smart Computing (BigComp), Busan, Republic of Korea, 19–22
February 2020; pp. 477–482.
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
