

===== PAGE 1 =====
Perception Task Ofﬂoading with Collaborative
Computation for Autonomous Driving
Zhu Xiao, Senior Member, IEEE, Jinmei Shu, Hongbo Jiang, Senior Member, IEEE, Geyong Min,
Hongyang Chen, Senior Member, IEEE, and Zhu Han, Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—Autonomous driving has so far received numerous
attention from academia and industry. However, the inevitable
occlusion is a great menace to safety and reliable driving. Existing
works have primarily focused on improving the perception ability
of a single autonomous vehicle (AV), but the safety problem
brought by occlusions remains unanswered. In this paper, we
propose a multi-tier perception task ofﬂoading framework with
a collaborative computing approach, where an AV is able to
achieve a comprehensive perception of the concerned region-
of-interest (RoI) by leveraging collaborative computation with
nearby AVs and road side units (RSUs). Besides, the collaborative
computation provides ofﬂoading service for computationally
intensive tasks so as to reduce processing delay. Speciﬁcally,
we formulate a joint problem of perception task assignment,
ofﬂoading and resource allocation, by fully considering the
AV’s mobility, task dependency, and delay requirement. The
collaborative ofﬂoading is modeled as a mixed-integer nonlinear
programming (MINLP) problem. We design a two-layer binary
intelligent ﬁreﬂy (TL-BIFA) algorithm to solve MINLP, with
the goal of minimizing execution delay. The proposed TL-BIFA
synthesizes the advantages of heuristic methods and deterministic
methods. Through extensive simulations, the proposed collabo-
rative ofﬂoading approach and the TL-BIFA show superiority in
enhancing the autonomous driving system’s safety, efﬁciency and
resource utilization.
Index Terms—Perception task ofﬂoading, collaborative com-
putation, autonomous driving, vehicle mobility.
I. INTRODUCTION
T
HE boom of autonomous driving in recent years has
expanded itself to the territories beyond technological
Manuscript received XX XX 2022.
This work was supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation
of China under Grants 62272152, 62271452 and U20A20181; in part by the
Key R&D Project of Hunan Province of China under Grant 2022GK2020; in
part by Hunan Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 2022JJ30171,
and in part by the Open Research Fund from Guangdong Laboratory of
Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Digital Economy (SZ) under Grants GML-KF-
22-22 and GML-KF-22-23; in part by NSF CNS-2107216, CNS-2128368
and CMMI-2222810; in part by Shenzhen Science and Technology Program
under Grant JCYJ20220530160408019; in part by the Funding Projects of
Zhejiang Lab under Grants 2021LC0AB05 and 2022PI0AC01. (Correspond-
ing author: H. Jiang.)
Z. Xiao, J. Shu and H. Jiang are with the College of Computer Science
and Electronic Engineering, Hunan University, Changsha, 410082, China, and
also with Shenzhen Research Institute of Hunan University, Shenzhen, 518055
China. (email: {zhxiao, jinmeishu, hongbojiang}@hnu.edu.cn).
G. Min is with the Department of Computer Science, University of Exeter,
Exeter, UK. (email: g.min@exeter.ac.uk).
H. Chen is with the Research Center for Graph Computing, Zhejiang Lab,
Hangzhou 311100, China. (email: hongyang@zhejianglab.com).
Z. Han is with is with the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering at the University of Houston, Houston, TX 77004 USA, and
also with the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Kyung Hee
University, Seoul, South Korea, 446-701. (e-mail: hanzhu22@gmail.com).
RSU 
AV
pedestrians 
and cyclists
AV
occlusion
truck
future trajectory
 of  AV
building
Fig. 1.
Occlusions in autonomous driving. For the AV (marked ‘green’),
its perceivable range is limited due to various occlusions, i.e., the speeding
vehicle blinded by the truck, the pedestrians blocked by the vehicle in front,
the cyclists and the walker between the buildings. Car collision or trafﬁc
accident would happen if the AV could not acquire real-time knowledge on
these occlusions.
achievement [1], [2]. Equipped with cutting-edge sensors such
as ultrasonic radar, LiDAR and stereo cameras, autonomous
vehicle (AVs) are provided with varied ﬁelds of view [3].
Using a combination of artiﬁcial intelligence processing units,
AVs are able to make decisions in complex driving situations
without human input [4]. Furthermore, the autonomous driving
with the Internet-of-Vehicles (IoV) enables information shar-
ing among connected vehicles, promising a congestion-free,
non-accident and energy-saving transportation system.
Although the substantial success of autonomous driving is
on the way, the limited perceivable range of a single AV tends
to degrade the automated driving performance. This is largely
because of the unavoidable occlusions during driving. Even if
an AV is equipped with a 360◦camera and a high-end LiDAR,
it is unable to perceive the occlusions caused by dynamic or
static obstacles (e.g., nearby AVs and buildings). As shown
in Fig. 1, the AV (marked ’green’) needs to perceive the
surroundings to realize reliable planning and control before
any actions are taken. However, the speeding vehicle blinded
by the truck, together with the pedestrians and cyclists, are
beyond the AV’s perceivable range, and consequently causes
occlusions. If the AV intends lane-changing without acquiring
knowledge of those occlusions, trafﬁc accidents or car colli-
sion may well happen.
As a promising solution, leveraging collaborative compu-
tation empowers the AV to regain the visual information of
occlusions. By feat of the collaborative computation, the AV
is able to establish collaboration with road-side units (RSUs)
and nearby AVs in the automotive environment, whose sensors
Digital Object Identiﬁer: 10.1109/JSAC.2022.3227027
1558-0008 c
⃝2022 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See http://www.ieee.org/publications
standards/publications/rights/index.html for more information.


===== PAGE 2 =====
2
cover the occlusions. For example, in Fig. 1, the AV (the
‘green’ vehicle ) can be informed of a potential car crash by
collaborating with the RSU through vehicle-to-infrastructure
(V2I) link. As for the vision blocked by the vehicle in front,
it can be recovered by communicating with the vehicle ahead
via vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) links. As such, co-perceiving the
surroundings with nearby AVs and RSUs not only beneﬁts a
single AV, but also forms a global information network, safe-
guarding all the AVs and pedestrians. However, collaborative
computation alone does not promise the absolute safety for the
autonomous driving, since trafﬁc accidents take place if the
perceived data is not analysed in a timely manner. Note that
the process of perception tasks often requires computation-
intensive machine learning (ML) models, which makes it
hard for the resource-constrained AVs to react to the trafﬁc
condition in real-time. To tackle this issue, perception task
ofﬂoading enables outsourcing the collaborative computation
workload to RSUs. In this way, perception task ofﬂoading
with collaborative computation provides the AV with enhanced
and prompt awareness of its surroundings, and consequently
improving driving reliability and road safety.
Existing works have investigated the collaborative computa-
tion and perception task ofﬂoading. For instance, the authors
in [5] and [6] focused on extending the AV’s ﬁeld of view
by means of collaborative computation. In detail, Sridhar
and Eskandarian [5] turned every nearby AV into a moving
platform via V2V communication. Guizar et al. [6] adopted
vehicle-to-everything (V2X) communication to facilitate col-
laborative perception. A successful collaborative perception
demands real-time processing. Regarding this, the authors in
[7] and [8] applied task ofﬂoading strategy to autonomous
driving systems. Instead of merely focusing on optimizing the
assignments of computation tasks, the authors in [9] and [10]
proposed computing resource allocation strategies to boost the
performance of task ofﬂoading.
Despite the efforts, several challenging issues remain unre-
solved in the aforementioned works. i) None of these works
took AVs’ mobility into consideration when performing col-
laborative perception tasks. During the movement of the AV,
its accessible AVs and RSUs change, as well the occlusions.
The information of occlusions will lost if the AV moves out
of the communication range in the collaborative computation,
or if the occlusion is no longer under the sensing range of the
co-perceivers (e.g., the RSUs and nearby AVs). ii) Existing
studies neglect the inherent dependency of perception tasks in
collaborative computation, which is likely to result in infeasi-
ble solutions. For example, according to recent designs of au-
tomated autonomous driving systems from both academic [8],
[11], [12] and industry [13], [14], in the perception stage,
object tracking can start only when object detection is ﬁnished.
Task failure will turn out if object tracking is scheduled to
be executed before detection. iii) Efﬁcient task ofﬂoading
requires a well-balanced resource allocation strategy. Allotting
more resources to one task helps to accelerate its execu-
tion process, while the performance of other ofﬂoaded tasks
will be degraded, thereby bringing higher delay to complete
collaborative computation. In other words, an inappropriate
resource allocation strategy leads to prolonged computation
delay, degrading ofﬂoading performance and hindering the
safety of autonomous driving.
Motivated by the above-mentioned challenges, we propose
a new perception task ofﬂoading framework with collaborative
computation to enhance the reliability of autonomous driving.
Speciﬁcally, to resolve the mobility issue, the AV’s move-
ment is modeled as a three-phase process. The candidate co-
perceivers for collaborative computation are identiﬁed accord-
ing to the position features during each phase. Furthermore,
task ofﬂoading and resource allocation are enabled for AVs
with collaborative computation to accelerate task execution.
To this end, we formulate a joint problem of perception task
assignment, ofﬂoading and resource allocation, via fully con-
sidering the AV’s mobility, the task dependency and the delay
requirement. The ofﬂoading decisions are made under the
constraints of vehicle mobility and task dependency. Besides,
the resource allocation issue is tackled for task ofﬂoading,
so that computing resources are utilized effectively and the
completion delay of perception task is further reduced.
The main contributions of this paper are summarized as
follows.
• In the multi-tier perception task ofﬂoading framework
with collaborative computation, we propose to generalize
the AV’s movement as a three phase-process. To specify,
we deﬁne the AV’s concerned area as a region of interest
(RoI) box, and each phase is characterized by the relative
position of RoI and RSUs. Collaborative computation is
carried out based on the AV’s current phase.
• An original and efﬁcient perception task ofﬂoading strat-
egy is designed to minimize perception delay, under the
constraint of task dependency. A perception task contains
three parts, namely localization, detection and tracking.
Object detection and tracking tasks are scheduled in a
sequential manner, while localization is performed in
parallel with these two tasks. In so doing, the dependency
of perception task is met. Besides, the uploading method
of background subtraction is utilized for perception task
ofﬂoading, so as to reduce the uploaded perceived data.
• A resource allocation mechanism is proposed to im-
prove the performance of task ofﬂoading. To specify,
we formulate a joint problem of perception task assign-
ment, ofﬂoading and resource allocation, with the goal
of minimizing the task completion delay. The formu-
lated problem is a mixed-integer nonlinear programming
(MINLP) problem. A two-layer binary intelligent ﬁreﬂy
algorithm (TL-BIFA) is proposed to solve this problem.
In the outer layer, a binary intelligent ﬁreﬂy algorithm
(BIFA) is designed to search for the optimal ofﬂoading
solution. With the integer variables ﬁxed, the original
problem is decomposed into a nonlinear programming
(NLP) problem. Based on the KKT conditions, the re-
source allocation strategy is achieved, and hence the NLP
problem is settled.
• Experimental results show that our proposed approach
outperforms others in terms of fast convergence, high re-
source utilization and complete sensory information. With
400 TOPS of vehicle’s computing power, the collabora-
tive computation scheme can reach a minimal perception


===== PAGE 3 =====
3
delay of 0.14 ms per video frame, which is far less than
the delay upper bound of 3 ms when the AV is driving
at a speed of 50 km/h. The resource utilization and the
information completion are up to 100%, which veriﬁes
the effectiveness and reliability of the proposed approach.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. In
Section II, we present an overview of the related works. Sec-
tion III presents the system model. Problem formulation and
the corresponding solution are presented in Section IV and
Section V, respectively. Section VI provides the evaluation and
result discussion. Finally, Section VII concludes the paper.
II. RELATED WORKS
There have been a number of works focusing on the
occlusion problem in automotive environments. Naumann et
al. [15] predicted the safety for an AV to pass through a
potential conﬂict area with occluded vehicles. Schratter et al.
[16] combined an ofﬂine approach with emergency braking
system to obtain less conservative driving behavior for a
pedestrian collision. Zhang et al. [17] predicted the appearance
probability of phantom objects in occlusion scenarios. Apart
from the prediction-related approaches, efforts have been de-
voted to collaborative computation for addressing occlusions
in automated environments. Collaborative computation refers
to collaborating with nearby AVs and/or RSUs to perceive the
surroundings. Ghorai et al. [18] utilized the on-board sensory
perception capabilities and information obtained through V2X
connections to enhance driving safety. Hui et al. [19] proposed
a digital twins based scheme to facilitate the collaborative and
distributed autonomous driving.
Perception tasks are computation-intensive, and the delay
requirement is as stringent as a few milliseconds [20]. To
shorten the computation delay, the task ofﬂoading method-
ology has been introduced to autonomous driving systems.
Liu et al. [21] developed an intelligent vehicle scheduling and
ofﬂoading algorithm to reduce ofﬂoading latency. Qi et al.
[22] exploited the sensing ability of AVs for real-time data
collection, vehicular edge computing was adopted to improve
the computing capability, and to reduce the transmission
of massive raw environmental data. An edge learning-based
ofﬂoading framework for autonomous driving was proposed
by Yang et al. [23], where the deep learning tasks can be
ofﬂoaded to the edge server to improve the inference accuracy
while meeting the latency constraint. Yet, the perceived data
generated by various sensors are up to 2 GB/s, these data
requires processing with extremely tight latency constraints
[24]. To reduce the high transmission delay incurred by
uploading of an enormous amount of raw sensing data, Qi
et al. [7] developed a task ofﬂoading mechanism, where the
vehicle can either use the conventional ofﬂoading method to
upload the raw perceived data, or it can adopt the instruction
transmission method. The instruction transmission allowed the
AV to transmit computation instructions instead of raw sensory
data, the uploading data are signiﬁcantly decreased.
To ensure the ofﬂoading performance, many researches have
been concentrated on working out reasonable resource alloca-
tion strategies. Note that RSUs and vehicles are both under
the constraint of computing power. If excessive computing
resources are squandered on one task, the others’ computing
delay is prone to be lengthened, and the overall collaborative
computation process is enlarged. To address this issue, Du
et al. [25] devised a continuous relaxation and Lagrangian
dual decomposition based iterative algorithm for joint radio
resource and power allocation. Feng et al. [26] focused on
the optimization of task ofﬂoading and resource allocation,
the original optimization problem was transformed into an
equivalent weighted-sum problem. A low-complexity greedy
based efﬁcient searching algorithm was proposed to obtain
ofﬂoading strategies. Liu et al. [27] proposed a game-based
distributed computation scheme, where the users compete for
the edge cloud’s ﬁnite computation resources via a pricing
approach. Huang et al. [28] aimed at maximizing the ofﬂoaded
computation data by task partition, transmit power and of-
ﬂoading time allocation, without consideration of computing
resource allocation. Dai et al. [29] proposed computation
ofﬂoading and resource allocation optimization for augmented
vehicular reality algorithm with hybrid sensing data fusion
of cooperative perception. The optimal power allocation was
carried out based on convex optimization theory.
For collaborative computation, there exists a particular order
for tasks to be performed. Speciﬁcally, object detection is the
preceding task of object tracking, the later cannot start until the
former is completed. Cui et al. [8] considered task dependency
when ofﬂoading automotive tasks, and proposed a novel ap-
proach to ofﬂoad computationally intensive autonomous driv-
ing services. Liu et al. [30] developed an efﬁcient task schedul-
ing algorithm to prioritize multiple tasks so as to guarantee the
completion time constraints. Collaborative computation also
requires tackling the mobility of the AV. The movement of the
AV brings dynamic to the occlusions and its accessible objects,
and consequently leads to the variation of its concerned
area and intermittent connectivity. In [31], Mao et al. pre-
sented a data-driven capacity planning framework, regarding
the deployment of stationary and mobile fog nodes. They
aimed to minimize the installation and operational costs, while
considering the spatio-temporal variation in both demand and
supply. In [32], Liu et al. proposed a task ofﬂoading scheme
by exploiting multi-hop vehicle computation resources based
on mobility analysis of vehicles. An optimization problem
was formulated to minimize the weighted sum of execution
time and computation costs. Nevertheless, these approaches
concentrated only on the computation part, without addressing
the AV’s perceptive limitation issue.
Summarizing, collaborative computation is a promising so-
lution to expand the AV’s ﬁeld of view, yet it demands the real
time processing of the computation-intensive tasks. On top of
that, the limitation on AV’s perceptive range was essentially
unsolved in the existing works. Perception task ofﬂoading
accelerates the task execution process, while on the premise
that vehicle mobility, task dependency and resource allocation
are considered in a joint way. Inspired by this, we propose the
perception task ofﬂoading with collaborative computation for
autonomous driving. The collaborative computation is carried
out based on the movement of the AV, which is modeled
as a three-phase process (see Section III-C). During the


===== PAGE 4 =====
4
task ofﬂoading process, the uploading method of background
subtraction (see Section III-D1) is exploited to reduce the
transmission delay. The scheduling of perception tasks follows
the constraint of task dependency (see Section III-D2), and
the computing resources are wisely allocated to minimize the
completion delay (see Section IV).
III. SYETEM MODEL
In this section, we present a generic autonomous driving
scenario where multiple AVs move with several equally spaced
RSUs along the road. During AV’s movement, it is required
the environmental perception for the safety driving. When
occlusions occur, the AV can demand its co-perceivers, i.e.,
the nearby AVs and RSUs, to help perceiving its RoI. The
perception tasks can be processed by vehicles themselves or
ofﬂoaded to the serving RSUs. A central unit (CU), e.g., a base
station (BS), is in charge of action executions in the multi-tier
collaborative computation [7]. The CU collects the required
information in the autonomous driving system, conducts the
task assignment, makes ofﬂoading and resource allocation
decisions and informs RSUs and vehicles of the decisions.
The data transmission and information sharing are supported
by V2V and V2I communications, through which the Ultra
Reliable Low Latency Communication (URLCC) can achieve
low latency with less than 1ms [33].
The system model of the perception task ofﬂoading with
collaborative computation is described in the following sub-
sections. Table I presents the main notations and deﬁnitions
in this paper.
Remarks. RSU is willing to help the AV in the computation
of perceptive tasks, since it is deployed as a stable participant
in the autonomous driving system to improve the system’s
safety level. Besides, AVs’ participating in collaborative com-
putation is not only about helping the single AV, but also
about the safety of its own and the whole road. Beyond that,
the intention of perceiving public areas in the automotive
environment makes collaborative computation exclusive of the
privacy concern.
A. Perception Task in Autonomous Driving
The autonomous driving technology includes two stages,
i.e., perception and decision [12]. Fig. 2 illustrates the per-
ception tasks and computing pipeline of a highly automated
autonomous driving system. The perception stage contains
environmental data collection, vehicle localization, object de-
tection and object tracking. In particular, the output of object
detection is the input of object tracking, infeasible computa-
tion ofﬂoading solution is caused if the task dependency is
neglected. Integrating both perceptive information and current
driving mode (e.g., driver’s interventions), the autonomous
driving system is able to perform motion planning [34], which
includes action prediction and obstacle avoidance. In this
paper, we focus on the perception stage, based on which
the AV acts to the automotive environment. The performance
of perception tasks determines the reliability of autonomous
driving.
TABLE I
NOTATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
Notations
Deﬁnitions
fvi
Computing resource of Vehicle vi
fuj
Computing resource of RSU uj
RRoI
RoI of v0
R0
Perceivable area of v0 in RRoI
Rf
Occluded area in front of v0 in RRoI
Rb
Occluded area behind v0 in RRoI
CRoI
Perception task of v0 in RRoI
C0
Perception task of v0 in R0
Cf
Perception task of v0 in Rf
Cb
Perception task of v0 in Rb
Vf
Set of AVs ahead of v0 in RRoI
Vb
Set of AVs behind v0 in RRoI
ρ
Phase indicator
x∗
i
Task ofﬂoading indicator
µ∗
vi
Resource allocation indicator of vehicle vi
µ∗
uj
Resource allocation indicator of RSU uj
Ω
Set of AVs and RSUs that are assigned collaborative perception tasks
ΩV
Set of AVs that are assigned collaborative perception tasks
ΩU
Set of RSUs that are assigned collaborative perception tasks
X
Task ofﬂoading decision for AVs in ΩV
Dvi
Completion delay of vi in ΩV
Duj
Completion delay of uj in ΩU
µvi
Overall fraction of allocated resources to vi in ΩV
µuj
Overall fraction of allocated resources to uj in ΩU
Fig. 2. Perception task in autonomous driving. At the perception stage, the
captured video is streamed in parallel to i) object detector and tracker, to
recognize and trace objects; ii) localization engine to locate the AV. At the
decision stage, object movements, vehicle location and driving information
are fused and transferred to motion planner for actions.
The task dependency can be explained as follows. First,
AV’s visual sensors capture the video of the automotive
environment and transfer it into the object detector and the
localization engine concurrently. Then, the detected objects are
passed to the object tracker to follow the objects’ movement.
The outputs of AV’s localizer and tracker, i.e., AV’s localiza-
tion and the tracked objects, are projected into the same 3D
coordinate space by the fusion machine. After that, the motion
planner makes operational decision according to the results of
information fusion. Finally, the motion planner is invoked once
the AV deviates from its originally planned route, wherein the
information is delivered to motion planner for a more informed
operational plan.
Remarks. Existing studies devoted to task ofﬂoading for
autonomous driving often schedule these tasks in a sequen-
tial way, while indeed localization task can be executed at
the same time with detection and tracking. Besides, object
detection should be processed before tracking to obtain object
movement. On this basis, we schedule task ofﬂoading based
on the inherent dependency of perception tasks.


===== PAGE 5 =====
5
Fig. 3.
Perception task ofﬂoading with collaborative computation. R0 is
the perceivable region of AV v0 (e.g., the green vehicle). Rf and Rb are
the occlusions in the concerned area
RRoI (the red solid rectangle). By
collaborating with AVs and RSUs, the AV acquires a comprehensive under-
standing for RRoI. Ofﬂoading perception tasks to RSUs further accelerates
the understanding process.
B. Perception Task with Collaborative Computation
Recall the ﬁrst paragraph of Section III, which describes the
system model of perception task ofﬂoading with collaborative
computation. For the sake of analytical simplicity, we consider
a generalized scenario in the autonomous driving environment,
namely, as illustrated in Fig. 3, a one-directional road compris-
ing two lanes, and the width of each lane is dl. RSUs equipped
with visual sensors are localized equidistantly along the road.
The computing power of an RSU is fuj. The sensing support
of an RSU is approximated by a rectangular with a length of
dr and a width of 2dl, which is denoted by RRSU (see the
blue dashed rectangle in Fig. 3) [35].
There are N AVs driving on the road, each AV is equipped
with a front camera. Let V = {v0, . . . , vi, . . . , vN} denote the
group of AVs. The computing resource of AV vi is denoted
by fvi, vi ∈V. The ﬁeld of view (FoV) of visual sensor
is modeled as an isosceles triangle and can be described
by Fvi = {α, φ} [36], where α is the FoV vertex angle,
denoting the aperture of the camera. The parameter φ is the
complementary angle to α/2, which deﬁnes the pose of the
camera.
As a running example, let say AV v0 (see the green vehicle
in Fig. 3) needs to perceive the surrounding environment.
Following [37], we describe the concerned area as a region
of interest (RoI) box RRoI, with a length of dRoI and a
width of 2dl. Note that using road classiﬁcation algorithms
such as
[38], the RoI can be identiﬁed in a timely manner
according to ever-changing surroundings in practical driving
situations. Owing to the occlusions caused by buildings and
other vehicles, not all the areas in RoI can be perceived by
v0. As shown in Fig. 3, the occluded zones of v0 include
occlusions in front and blind spots behind. RRoI is further
divided into three parts: R0, Rf and Rb. R0 is the area within
v0’s sight of view, Rf and Rb are the occlusions in front of
and behind v0, respectively. Hence, we have
R0 + Rf + Rb = RRoI.
(1)
Potential threat exists in Rf and Rb since there might be
pedestrians or overtaking cars.
For seeking solutions, we leverage collaborative computa-
tion to upgrade the safety level of autonomous driving, where
the perception tasks are ofﬂoaded and handled by nearby AVs
and RSUs collaboratively. In this way, the perception tasks
are computed, and the computing results are sent back to v0
through V2V or V2I links. In so doing, the occlusions of v0 are
eliminated, since v0 is able to acquire a complete knowledge
on its concerned area. Corresponding to (1), RoI perception
task CRoI is divided into three parts, i.e., C0, Cf and Cb, which
denote the perception task in R0, Rf and Rb, respectively. The
reason we partition task C0 is for the convenience of ﬁnding
co-perceivers to assign collaborative computation tasks among,
which is based on the knowledge of where the occlusions are.
Accordingly, we obtain
C0 + Cf + Cb = CRoI.
(2)
Remarks. The generalized model (see in Fig. 3) can be
applied into various automotive scenarios. The AV broadcasts
perception request of its RoI when meeting occlusions. Know-
ing the request, the CU assigns collaborative computation tasks
among eligible vehicles and RSUs, schedules tasks and allo-
cates computation resources to help the AV in obtaining real-
time occlusion information. In other words, regardingless the
road environments the vehicles drive through, the perception
task ofﬂoading with collaborative computation is ‘triggered’
by the occlusions, that is, the nearby vehicles and RSUs, which
are coordinated by the CU, implement collaborative computa-
tion for the vehicles once they have RoI perception requests.
Hence, the practical road environments hardly exert inﬂuence
on the decision-making process perception task ofﬂoading with
collaborative computation. In this line, theoretical analysis
such as in Section III-C and Section III-D, which are derived
based on the generalized model in Fig. 3, can apply to other
scenarios in various automotive environments.
C. Vehicle Movement
The AV’s movement affects the selection of co-perceivers
in the autonomous driving system. As the AV moving on the
road, its occlusions change. For example, in Fig. 3, occlusion
Rb is no longer in the perceptive range of RSU ul, once AV
v0 moves into the coverage of RSU uh. In this case, RSU
ul is not suitable for for being a co-perceiver anymore. In
addition, the vehicle mobility problem exists in the collab-
orative computation. For example, if the co-perceiving AV
accelerates away from the AV’s communication range, the
perceptive information will be lost because of the disconnected
V2V link. Vehicular mobility is included in our work to settle
these problems. Note that there is a CU caching the positional
information of all AVs. Let Vf denote the AVs ahead of v0 in
RRoI, and AVs behind v0 in RRoI is represented as Vb. Since
RRoI is either in or partly in an RSU’s coverage range, we
consider two neighboring RSUs, namely ul and uh. According


===== PAGE 6 =====
6
Fig. 4. Three-phase movement of AVs. In phase 1, Rb is about to move in
uh’s perceivable range, but is still covered by ul. In phase 2, part of Rb is
perceived by the RSU uh. In phase 3, all the areas in RRoI is under uh’s
perceivable range.
to the relative position of v0 and RSUs, the movement of AV
v0 is described as a three-phase process, as shown in Fig. 4.
By assigning tasks among AVs and RSUs that are capable of
perceiving Rf and Rb, we deﬁne the task assignment function
as y = AS(x), indicating that collaborative task in CRoI is
allocated to y that can be a nearby AV or RSU. v0 is capable
of handling task C0 in R0, while the areas blinded by front
AVs can be assigned to these AVs. The assignments of C0 and
Cf are expressed as follows
v0 = AS(C0),
(3)
{vi; ∀vi ∈Vf ∩VV 2V } = AS(Cf),
(4)
where VV 2V is the set of AVs within v0’s communication
range.
Phase 1: Rb remains in ul’s coverage zone. Part of RRoI
is in the perceptive range of RSU uh, while the dead area Rb
behind AV v0 stays in RSU ul’s sensing range. RSU ul is
eligible for task Cb. Besides, any of AVs in Vb is qualiﬁed for
collaborative task Cb, as long as it is in the communication
range of v0.
{vi; ∀vi ∈Vb ∩VV 2V } ∥{ul} = ASρ=1 (Cb) ,
(5)
where ρ is the phase indicator, ρ = {1, 2, 3}.
Phase 2: Rb is partly in ul’s coverage zone. In this phase,
v0 keeps moving and part of Rb is under the coverage of uh,
meanwhile the rest remains in ul’s sight of view. Cb can be
handled by RSUs uh and ul collaboratively, or by the AV in
Vb ∩VV 2V .
{vi; ∀vi ∈Vb ∩VV 2V } ∥{ul ∪uh} = ASρ=2 (Cb) .
(6)
Phase 3: Rb is in uh’s coverage zone. v0 keeps moving
and RRoI is completely in the sensing range of uh. uh can
manage perception task Cb alone, or it can be handled by the
AV in Vb ∩VV 2V .
{vi; ∀vi ∈Vb ∩VV 2V } ∥{uh} = ASρ=3 (Cb) .
(7)
According to the movement of v0, we choose a set of co-
perceivers among RSUs and AVs to assist v0 in accomplishing
perception tasks. Let Ωdenote the set of the selected co-
perceivers, which satisﬁes
Ω= AS (C0) ∪AS (Cf) ∪ASρ=1,2,3 (Cb) .
(8)
Here Ω= ΩV ∪ΩU, ΩV and ΩU are the set of AVs and
RSUs assigned collaborative tasks, respectively.
D. Computation Ofﬂoading
To inform nearby AVs in ΩV of collaboration, v0 needs
to transmit an instruction. As for RSUs in ΩU, we assume
that RSUs are connected with the CU through backbones, and
thus have the collaborative task assignment decision copied in
its cache. In this way, the perception task C is activated. The
sensed data can be pre-processed by coordinate transformation
engine, so that the perspective differences are eliminated [5].
The latency of instruction transmission and coordinate trans-
formation is omitted, since the size of instruction is usually
several bits and the transformation delay is negligible [7].
The perception task includes data collecting and computing.
The perspective image is collected locally by visual sensors
equipped on AVs and RSUs. We denote the collected data size
as L. The data collection delay is not considered in our model
since it is as low as a few milliseconds [28].
In order to provide comprehensive and accurate information
for the motion planner, the collected data needs to go through
localization engine, object detector and tracker for computing.
To compute these tasks in real-time consumes a signiﬁcant
amount of computing resources, which may sometimes exceed
the AV’s computing power. By ofﬂoading tasks to RSUs that
are equipped with edge servers, the computing delay is cut
down, and the computing resources in the autonomous driving
system are efﬁciently utilized.
1) Data Transmission: To ofﬂoad perception tasks, the
sensory data ﬁrst needs to be transmitted from the AV’s visual
sensor to nearby AVs or the RSU. However, the amount of data
is up to 2 GB/s, which incurs unaffordable transmission delay.
To address this issue, we introduce the background subtraction
technique, which separates the dynamic foreground objects
from the static background of a scene [39]. The background
is the same in each frame and is cached in RSUs beforehand.
During the transmission process, only the extracted dynamic
foreground needs to be transferred. Compared to the raw
sensory image, the transmitted workload is notably reduced,
thereby saving uploading time. We denote the ratio of the
reduced transmission load to the original one as rsep, and
deﬁne M sep as the CPU cycle requirement of the separation
technology. Accordingly, the time spent on video separation
is calculated as
Dsep
vi
= LM sep
fvi
, vi ∈ΩV .
(9)
Let Dtrans
vi→uj denote the delay for transmitting data from AV
vi to RSU uj. Then, we have
Dtrans
vi→uj = Lrsep
Rvi→uj
, vi ∈ΩV , uj ∈U,
(10)
where Lrsep is the reduced data size, U = {ul, uh} is the set
of RSUs, and Rvi→uj is the transmission rate between AV vi


===== PAGE 7 =====
7
and RSU uj. As such, we consider a multi-vehicle wireless
interference model in uplink transmission. The transmission
rate Rvi→uj is calculated as
Rvi→uj = B log2


1 +
phij
σ2
j +
P
vk∈V\vi
phkj


,
vi ∈ΩV , uj ∈U,
(11)
where vk ∈V \ vi is the set of AVs accessed to RSU uj the
same as AV vi. p, σ2
j are the transmitting power of AV and
the noise power, respectively. The term hij = d−α1
ij
is the
channel gain determined by the path-loss exponent −α1 and
the distance dij between AV vi and RSU uj. dij is calculated
as
dij =
q
d
′
ij
2 + H2,
(12)
where d
′
ij is the distance from the current position of AV vi
to the location of RSU uj, and H is the height of RSU.
2) Task Computing: The ofﬂoading decision for collabora-
tive AVs in ΩV is described as
X =

X1, . . . , Xi, . . . , X|ΩV |
	
,
(13)
where Xi is the ofﬂoading decision of AV vi, Xi
=

xloc
i
, xdet
i
, xtrack
i
	
. The elements in Xi are binary variables
and represent the AV vi’s ofﬂoading decision for localization,
object detection and tracking, respectively. Xi = 1 if any of
the variables in Xi is 1; Xi = 0 indicates the perception tasks
are computed locally at AV vi. The completion delay of AV
vi’s perception tasks is calculated as
Dvi = max

Dloc
vi , Ddet
vi + Dtrack
vi
	
(14)
+ XiDtrans
vi→uj, vi ∈ΩV , uj ∈U,
where Dloc
vi , Ddet
vi
and Dtrack
vi
are the computing delay for
localization, object detecting and tracking, respectively. Task
dependency exists between object detecting and object track-
ing, since the output of the former one is the input of the
latter. Localization task is computed in parallel with object
detecting and tracking. Speciﬁcally, the computing delay of
these perceptive tasks is calculated as
D∗
vi = x∗
i LM ∗
µ∗vifuj
+ (1 −x∗
i ) LM ∗
fvi
, vi ∈ΩV , uj ∈U,
(15)
where D∗
vi is the computation delay indicator of vi’s percep-
tion task, D∗
vi ∈

Dloc
vi , Ddet
vi , Dtrack
vi
	
, and x∗
i is the task of-
ﬂoading indicator, x∗
i ∈

xloc
i
, xdet
i
, xtrack
i
	
. M ∗is computa-
tion intensity indicator, M ∗∈

M loc, M det, M track	
, where
M loc, M det and M track are the computation intensity of local-
ization, detection and tracking, respectively. µ∗
vi is the resource
allocation indicator of vehicle vi, µ∗
vi ∈

µloc
vi , µdet
vi , µtrack
vi
	
,
where µloc
vi , µdet
vi
and µtrack
vi
are the fractions of RSU uj’s
computing power allocated to AV vi for executing localization,
detection and tracking tasks, respectively.
We deﬁne the total fraction of computing resource assigned
to AV vi as µvi, which can be calculated as
µvi = µloc
vi + µdet
vi + µtrack
vi
, vi ∈ΩV .
(16)
Meanwhile, for each computing task of AVs in ΩV , the latency
should not exceed its delay requirement τ
LM ∗
x∗
i µ∗vifuj + (1 −x∗
i ) fvi
≤τ , vi ∈ΩV , uj ∈U.
(17)
If RSU uj is in ΩU, i.e., it is assigned a perception task, a
portion of uj’s computing resources should be saved for the
execution of its own tasks. We denote the overall faction of
computing resources saved for RSU uj as
µuj = µloc
uj + µdet
uj + µtrack
uj
, uj ∈ΩU.
(18)
Similar to (14), the completion delay of RSU uj is expressed
as
Duj = max
n
Dloc
uj , Ddet
uj + Dtrack
uj
o
, uj ∈ΩU.
(19)
Accordingly, the computing delay of RSU uj’s perception
tasks is calculated as
D∗
uj = LM ∗
µ∗ujfuj
, uj ∈ΩU,
(20)
where D∗
uj
is the computation delay indicator of uj’s
perception task, D∗
uj
∈
n
Dloc
uj , Ddet
uj , Dtrack
uj
o
, and µ∗
uj
is the resource allocation indicator of RSU uj, µ∗
uj
∈
n
µloc
uj , µdet
uj , µtrack
uj
o
.
Similar to (17), the computing delay of RSU in ΩU follows
the constraint
LM ∗
µ∗ujfuj
≤τ, uj ∈ΩU,
(21)
where µ∗
uj is the resource allocation indicator of RSU uj,
µ∗
uj ∈
n
µloc
uj , µdet
uj , µtrack
uj
o
. The allocated resource fractions
satisﬁes
I (uj ∈ΩU) µj +
|ΩV j|
X
i=1
µi = 1, uj ∈U, ΩV j ∈ΩV ,
(22)
where I (·) is an indicator function, which equals 1 if the event
is true and 0 the other way. ΩV j is the set of collaborative AVs
under the coverage of uj. (22) ensures that the fractions of the
allocated computing resources add up to 1.
IV. PROBLEM FORMULATION
In this section, we formulate the joint collaborative task
assignment, ofﬂoading and resource allocation optimization as
a MINLP problem, the goal is to minimize the completion
delay of the collaborative computation task. The problem of
joint collaborative task assignment, ofﬂoading and resource
allocation is three-fold. The ﬁrst one is how to assign collabo-
rative tasks so that v0 can achieve a full RRoI awareness. The
other two are which tasks to ofﬂoad and how many resources
to allocate, such that the completion delay is minimized. On
top of that, the optimization problem is formulated as
P0 : min
Ω,X,µ max

Dvi, Duj
	
, ∀vi ∈ΩV , uj ∈ΩU
(23)
s.t.
(8), (17), (21), and (22).
The spatial constraint (8) guarantees that all areas in CRoI
are perceived. Constraints (17) and (21) indicate the delay


===== PAGE 8 =====
8
requirements. (22) denotes that the sum of all the allocated
portions of an RSU’s computing resources is equivalent to 1.
The properties of problem P0 are expressed in the following
lemmas.
Lemma 1: P0 is a mixed-integer nonlinear programming
problem.
Proof 1: The task ofﬂoading decision X is binary-valued
and the variables in the resource allocation strategy µ are
continuous, P0 is a mixed-integer problem. The objective
function max

Dvi, Duj
	
is a nonlinear function of the de-
cision variables. Hence, the formulated problem is a mixed-
integer nonlinear problem. This completes the proof.
Lemma 2: Problem P0 is non-convex.
Proof 2: Please refer to Appendix A.
In addition, Problem P0 is a NP-hard combinatorial prob-
lem, as it includes MILP [40] and its solution usually requires
searching enormous search trees or even worse, is undecid-
able [41]. The existing methodologies for MINLP include
deterministic algorithms and heuristic methods. Typical deter-
ministic algorithms include branch and bound (B&B), outer
approximation (OA), and hybrid techniques, which show their
advantage in solving convex programming problem. Nonethe-
less, deterministic algorithm tends to lose its advantage for
in MINLP problem, as it requires solving the continuous
relaxation of P0 iteratively, which consequently increases
the number of non-convex terms and the non-convexity of
problem P0. Heuristic methodologies include nature-inspired
algorithms, genetic algorithms, etc. Heuristics are able to
obtain good feasible solution in real time when the search
tree has grown too large. However, global optima cannot be
typically guaranteed.
To overcome the above-mentioned shortcomings, we design
an efﬁcient two-layer (TL) algorithm which integrates the mer-
its of both heuristic algorithm and deterministic algorithm. To
specify, in the outer layer, a binary intelligent ﬁreﬂy algorithm
(BIFA) is devised for the optimal integer solutions, i.e., Ω
and X. Given the known information of integer variables,
MINLP is reduced to a serial of NLP problems, an NLP solver
works in the inner layer to calculate the continuous solution,
i.e., µ. Compared to deterministic algorithm, the proposed
TL algorithm settles the integer solutions without relying on
variable relaxation, which would otherwise increase the non-
convexity of P0. Different from heuristic algorithms, the TL
algorithm solves the continuous variables efﬁciently with the
known gradient information.
V. SOLUTIONS
In this section, we present the design of the two-layer
binary intelligent ﬁreﬂy algorithm (TL-BIFA), with the goal
of solving the MINLP of joint collaborative task assignment,
ofﬂoading and resource allocation. The proposed TL-BIFA
works as follows. In the outer layer, an enhanced version of
ﬁreﬂy algorithm is devised to ﬁnd the best co-perceiver set
and the feasible ofﬂoading solutions. In particular, concerning
the nature of easily being trapped in local optima, the idea of
the survival of the ﬁttest law is applied to the basic ﬁreﬂy
algorithm, ensuring that a ﬁreﬂy will only evolve towards
ﬁreﬂies with high brightness. With the integer variables ﬁxed
in outer layer, the MINLP problem is reduced to a serial of
NLP problems with the known gradient information, the non-
convexity is thereby reduced. The NLP problems are resolved
by applying the Karush-Kuhn-Tucker (KKT) conditions.
The reason we use FA to settle the integer variables in
the MINLP problem is threefold. First, the stringent delay
requirement imposed by collaborative computation task in
automotive environments entails an outer layer heuristic al-
gorithm that can approach the global optima efﬁciently. The
task assignment and ofﬂoading strategies are critical to the
system’s reliability and real-time performance. FA, as a very
powerful technique based on global communications among
the ﬁreﬂies, can solve constrained NP-hard optimization prob-
lems with high efﬁciency. Second, FA has a simple operation
and can be easily implemented. In FA, the generations of new
solutions are updated by random walk and attraction of the
ﬁreﬂies. Different from Ant Colony Optimization (ACO) and
many more bio-heuristic algorithms, FA improves solutions
without relying on complex rules. Third, the BIFA improves
its efﬁciency in approaching the global optima by applying the
survival of the ﬁttest law to generation updating, which makes
it overcome the bio-heuristic algorithms’ common nature of
being trapped in local optima.
A. BIFA For Collaborative Task Ofﬂoading
The task ofﬂoading decision is a (|ΩV |+2)×3 matrix, where
each row indicates a co-perceiver. Three columns respectively
represent a perception task, namely, the object localization,
object detection and object tracking. As such, task ofﬂoading
decision X is written as
X =


xloc
1
xdet
1
xtrack
1
...
...
...
xloc
|ΩV |
xdet
|ΩV |
xtrack
|ΩV |
I(ul ∈ΩU)
I(ul ∈ΩU)
I(ul ∈ΩU)
I(uh ∈ΩU)
I(uh ∈ΩU)
I(uh ∈ΩU)


,
(24)
where the ﬁrst |ΩV | rows are the ofﬂoading decisions of
collaborative AVs, each xi is binary-valued. The last two
rows indicate the RSUs’ collaborative tasks. For example,
I(uh ∈ΩU) = 1, if RSU uh is assigned with collaborative
tasks. In this case, uh has to save part of computing resources
for the three tasks. Otherwise, I(uh ∈ΩU) = 0. In short,
the co-perceiver set Ωdetermines the number of rows in X
and the value in the last two rows, which follows the spatial
constraint (8). Note that there are possibly multiple eligible
co-perceiver sets. We settle the set with the most computing
resources as Ωin the outer layer of TL-BIFA, as the co-
perceivers are able to provide faster computation results for
v0.
We deﬁne a population of ﬁreﬂies as
X = {X1, · · · , Xm, · · · , XM} ,
(25)
where M is the number of ﬁreﬂies in the population, Xm
indicates a collaborative ofﬂoading strategy. The light intensity
of a ﬁreﬂy depends on the objective function, i.e., task
completion delay. However, the brightness seen by another


===== PAGE 9 =====
9
ﬁreﬂy is affected by the distance between the two. A ﬁreﬂy
tends to be attracted to an adjacent ﬁreﬂy with a strong light.
We deﬁne the light intensity at the source as
Lm =
1
max

Dvi, Duj
	, vi ∈ΩV , uj ∈ΩU.
(26)
The light intensity Lab of ﬁreﬂy a observed from the perspec-
tive of ﬁreﬂy b varies according to the inverse square law [42]
I (dab) = Ia exp
 −γd2
ab

,
(27)
where dab is the distance between ﬁreﬂies a and b, which is
calculated as the euclidean distance between Xa and Xb. γ
is the degree of absorption since the light is also absorbed by
air. Besides, a ﬁreﬂy’s attractiveness is determined by the light
intensity seen by neighboring ﬁreﬂies [42], which is expressed
as
β (dab) = β0 exp
 −γd2
ab

,
(28)
where β0 is the attractiveness when dab = 0.
According to the above metrics, the position of a ﬁreﬂy (i.e.,
the solution of an ofﬂoading strategy) is updated according to
Xm = Xm + β (Xq −Xm) + α2ϵ.
(29)
The next position Xm of ﬁreﬂy m is related to its last
position (i.e., the ﬁrst term), the attraction (i.e., the second
term) and a randomization term α2ϵ. α2 is a randomization
parameter and ϵ is a random number drawn from a uniform
distribution [0, 1]. The third term in (29) is introduced to avoid
being stuck in local optima. Xm is discretized after position
updating, since a feasible ofﬂoading solution is binary-valued.
The process of the proposed BIFA algorithm for collabora-
tive task ofﬂoading is presented in Algorithm 1. Each ofﬂoad-
ing decision in X is updated according to (29), correspondingly
the population is changed. Even so, whether the population is
upgrading or retrograding is hard to guarantee, since there are
situations where a ﬁreﬂy is attracted to another one, and is
taken away from the global optimum, merely because it is
graphically close. We purposely make Modiﬁcations to ﬁreﬂy
algorithm to avoid such cases, hence an enhanced version of
ﬁreﬂy algorithm is designed. In BIFA, we rank population X in
descending order according to Lm before position updating. In
each generation, a ﬁreﬂy moves only towards top ϕM ﬁreﬂies,
where ϕ is percentage of the number of elite ﬁreﬂies to the
population. In so doing, it is ensured that the population is
upgraded after each iteration.
B. NLP Solver For Computing Resource Allocation
With collaborative task ofﬂoading strategy X, together with
Ω, is ﬁxed in outer layer, integer variables are settled. P0
thereby contains only a set of continuous variables, i.e., µ ∈
[0, 1]. The MINLP P0 is reduced to the NLP problem, which
is denoted by
P1 : min
µ max

Dvi, Duj
	
, ∀vi ∈ΩV , uj ∈ΩU.
(30)
s.t.
(17), (21), (22).
There are k1 =
PP|ΩV |
i=1 X inequality constraints repre-
senting the delay requirements of AV’s ofﬂoaded tasks, and
k2 = PP|ΩV |+2
|ΩV |+1X inequality constraints indicating the delay
requirement of RSU’s computing tasks. The total number
of inequality constraints k3 =
PP X. Additionally, two
equality constraints ensures that the sum of each RSU’s
allocated resource fractions is 1. For clarity, we deﬁne the
inequality constraints as
gk =
LM
xiµvifuj + (1 −xi) fvi
−τ , k = 1, · · · , k1.
(31)
gk =
LM
µujfuj
−τ, k = 1, · · · , k2.
(32)
The equality constraints are expressed as
hk = I (uj ∈ΩU) µj +
|ΩV j|
X
i=1
µi −1 , k = 1, 2.
(33)
Then we obtain the optimization problem:
min
µ f(µ) = max

Dvi, Duj
	
,
(34)
subject to
hk = 0, k = 1, 2
and
gk ≤0 k = 1, . . . , k3.
P1 is a non-linear optimization problem with equality and
inequality constraints. To solve P1, we deﬁne the Lagrangian
operator as
L(µ, e, q) = f(µ) + P2
k=1ekhk + Pk3
k=1qkgk.
(35)
We can ﬁnd a local optimum µ∗if there exists a unique q∗
satisfying
▽µ L(µ∗, e∗, q∗) = 0,
(36)
q∗
k ≥0, for k = 1, . . . k3,
(37)
q∗
kgk(µ∗) = 0, for k = 1, . . . k3,
(38)
gk(µ∗) ≤0 for k = 1, . . . , k3,
(39)
hk(µ∗) = 0 for k = 1, 2,
(40)
yt ▽µµ L(µ∗)y ≥0, ∀y orthogonal to ▽µ g(µ∗).
(41)
Constraints (36)-(41) are the KKT conditions associated with
problem P1. (36) and (37) ensure that µ∗is an extreme
point. (41) makes sure that ▽µµL(µ∗) is a positive semi-
deﬁnite matrix, and µ∗is a local optimum. Constraints (39)
and (40) are the original equality and inequality constrains,
respectively. (38) is the complementary slackness, which indi-
cates the impact of inequality constraints on the optima. The
process of NLP Solver is presented in Algorithm 2.
Lemma 3: Eq. (38) is the prerequisite of an optimum µ∗.
Proof 3: If we ﬁnd a local optimum µ∗that lies within the
feasible region, i.e., g(µ∗) ≤0, a constrained local minimum
is the same for an unconstrained local minimum, and thus q =
0. If µ∗is out of the feasible region, the inequality constraints
are effective. Then, we have g(µ∗) ≤0. The optimal solution
occurs when ▽µf(µ) and ▽µg(µ) are parallel
−▽µf(µ) = λ ▽µ g(µ).
(42)
In other words, if resource allocation µ∗, together with the dual
parameter pair e∗and q∗, satisﬁes the KKT conditions (36)-
(41), µ∗is the optimal resource allocation. This completes the
proof.


===== PAGE 10 =====
10
Algorithm 1: Outer Layer: BIFA Algorithm
Input: the AV’s current phase ρ, FoV Fi and RRoI,
AVs V, RSUs U, RSU’s coverage range RRSU
and computing resource fuj, the set of AVs
whithin v0’s communication range, VV 2V , AV’s
computing power fvi and task characteristics.
Output: collaborative task assignment Ω, task
ofﬂoading decision X and RSUs’ resource
allocation µ.
1 OUTER LAYER FOR Ω, X
2 Set the co-perceiver set that satisﬁes (8) and has the
most computing resources as Ω;
3 Randomly generate the ﬁrst population of ﬁreﬂies X
according to Ω;
4 while z ≤maximum number of generations do
5
Rank ﬁreﬂies in descending order according to
lightness;
6
Record the best ﬁreﬂy Xbest and the corresponding
Ωbest in this population;
7
for m = 1 to M do
8
for a = 1 to ϕM do
9
if La > Lm then
10
Calculate the euclidean distance dam
between Xm and Xa;
11
Calculate the attractiveness according to
(28);
12
Update ﬁreﬂy Xm in the z-th
generation according to (29);
13
Normalize ﬁreﬂy Xm to interval [0, 1] ;
14
Discretize ﬁreﬂy Xm;
15
INNER LAYER FOR µ
16
Put k3 inequality constraints and equality
constraints (17), (21) and (22), and the
objective function f(µ) into NLP solver;
17
Record the optimal resource allocation µ for
each ﬁreﬂy;
18
Update the lightness of ﬁreﬂy m according to
(26);
19
Update the z-th generation of ﬁreﬂies X ;
20
Record the best ﬁreﬂy of the z-th generation as
Xbest ;
21 Return Ω, X, µ.
C. Algorithm Complexity Analysis
In the two-layer binary intelligent ﬁreﬂy algorithm (TL-
BIFA), the computational complexity of the initialization
phase is O(N), the position update of a ﬁreﬂy generation
in the outer layer is O(ϕM). With the integer variables
settled in the outer layer, problem P0 turns into the resource
allocation problem P1, which is solved by the NLP solver
in the inner layer with computational complexity of O(k3).
Hence, the overall computational complexity of TL-BIFA is
O(N + ϕZM2 + ZMk3), where Z is the maximum number
of ﬁreﬂy generations.
Algorithm 2: Inner Layer: NLP Solver
Input: collaborative task assignment Ω, ofﬂoading
decision X.
Output: RSUs’ resource allocation µ.
1 Generate matrices Xml and Xmh to store the
perception tasks assigned to RSU ul and RSU uh,
respectively;
2 Initialize Xml and Xmh according to Ω, X ;
3 calculate the total number of perception tasks that
RSU ul and RSU uh needs to compute, record the
numbers as kl, kh, respectively;
4 for each RSU in U do
5
Deﬁne the inequality constraints according to (31)
and (32);
6
Deﬁne the equality constraint according to (33);
7
Deﬁne the Lagrangian operator according to (35);
8
Find the resource allocation µ according to the
KKT conditions (36)-(41);
9 Return Ω, X, µ.
VI. EVALUATION AND DISCUSSION
A. Trace-based Simulations
We consider an unidirectional and two-lane road with a lane
width of 3.75 m, the distance from the RSU to the centerline
of the road is 15 m [7]. The sensing radius, as well as V2I
transmission range, of an RSU is 200 m [43], and hence RSUs
are deployed at a interval of 200 m to provide a full coverage.
The height of RSU is 20 m [7]. There are N = 10 AVs
scattered under the coverage of two neighboring RSUs, each
AV is armed with a visual sensor. The camera equipped on
AVs is Leopard Imaging LI-USB30-P031XB, and its FoV is
D112◦×H89.6◦×V67.2◦[5]. The sensory data size of single
visual frame is 100 KB with a resolution of 1280×720 pixels
[29]. The computation intensity of perception tasks follows
a uniform distribution in [1, 000, 2, 640] cycles/bit [44], [45],
and the delay requirement τ is 0.1 s [46]. Using dynamic
foreground and static background separation technique, the
ratio of reduced workload to the original data size rsep is
0.85 [39].
According to Horizon Robotics’ summary, a higher level
of automated driving requires more orders of magnitude tera
operations per second (TOPS), namely, 10 TOPS for L2
autonomy, 30 to 60 TOPS for L3, more than 100 TOPS for
L4, and around 1, 000 TOPS for L5. Our autonomous driving
system is based on Huawei MDC 810 computing platform
and could achieve 400 TOPS of computing power. Due to the
heterogeneity of AV users’ computing demand, the computing
resource of AVs is drawn from a random distribution in [3, 5]
GHz [9], and the computing power of each RSU is 20 GHz
[47]. Collaborative environment perception are carried out in
RoI to ensure autonomous driving safety, the length of R is
100 m [48] and V2V communication range is 70 m [49]. In
the perception task ofﬂoading system, the bandwidth assigned
to each collaborative AV is B = 1 GHz, the noise power σ2
j
is 10−13 W and the path-loss exponent α1 is 4 [47].


===== PAGE 11 =====
11
In BIFA, there are 50 generations of ﬁreﬂy population and
the total number of ﬁreﬂies in each population is 10. The initial
attractiveness β0 is set as 1. The randomization parameter
α2 = 1.The parameter γ characterizes the variation of the
attractiveness, determining the speed of the convergence and
how the FA algorithm behaves. In our settings, γ is set to be
varied from 0.1 to 10.
B. Metrics and Baselines
We conduct the evaluation based on three metrics, i.e., delay,
resource utilization and the completion of RoI perception.
1) Delay: Delay measures the efﬁciency of collaborative
task, and is related with the safety level of automated driving
systems [24].
To evaluate the efﬁciency of TL-BIFA, we compare the
algorithm with two-layer random search (TL-RS) and two-
layer ﬁreﬂy algorithm (TL-FA). The reason we choose TL-RS
for comparison is that, an AV’s RoI is limited, the number of
the selected co-perceivers are small (e.g., several collaborative
AVs and RSUs), TL-RS can ﬁnd a relatively good solutions
in given time. In TL-RS,a guarantee of optimality is sacriﬁced
for ﬁnding a good ofﬂoading solution quickly. Compared
to TL-BIFA, TL-FA updates ﬁreﬂies according to distance,
without considering objective function. Different from TL-FA,
TL-BIFA upgrade the population by moving ﬁreﬂies towards
the best ϕM ﬁreﬂies in the population. We investigate the
impact of parameter ϕ on the convergence of TL-BIFA and
the benchmark algorithms, by tuning up ϕ from 0.5 to 0.75.
The results are shown in Fig. 5.
To investigate the performance of the outer-layer and inner-
layer algorithms, we compare the proposed FA algorithm
with two baselines, i.e., the ant colony optimization (ACO)
algorithm and the whale optimization algorithm (WOA) [50],
and we compare the NLP-solver with two baselines, i.e., the
branch and bound (B&B) algorithm [51] and the Markov
approximation (MA) algorithm [52]. Following the work [26],
the exhaustive search (ES) algorithm is used to ﬁnd the optimal
bound. The results are shown in Fig. 6.
We evaluate the resource allocation performance by com-
paring the proposed scheme with four baselines, i.e., the online
dynamic adaptive (ODA) scheduling algorithm [8], the feder-
ated Q-learning (FQL) algorithm [53], the Attention-weighted
Recurrent Multi-Agent Actor-Critic (ARMAAC) algorithm
[54] and the low complexity greedy based efﬁcient searching
(GES) algorithm [26]. The ODA algorithm optimizes task
ofﬂoading decisions without considering resource allocation.
Computing resources of vehicles and RSUs are allocated to
shorten the response time under the FQL and ARMAAC
schemes, respectively. GES makes resource allocation strate-
gies for both vehicles and RSUs in order to meet the stringent
delay requirement. The results are shown in Fig. 7.
2) Resource Utilization: Resource utilization refers to the
proportion of consumed computing resources of the system.
The higher the resource utilization is, the more computing
resources are used for processing. We compare our perception
ofﬂoading method with two baselines, i.e., local computing
(LOCO) and edge ofﬂoading (EDO), in terms of delay and
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
Iterations
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
0.4
0.45
0.5
Delay (ms)
TL-RS
TL-FA
TL-BIFA ( =0.75)
TL-BIFA ( =0.5)
TL-BIFA ( =0.25)
Fig. 5. Delay of algorithms with iterations.
resource utilization. Under the LOCO scheme, the tasks are
processed by AVs locally without computation ofﬂoading. In
EDO, sensory data is outsourced to RSUs for processing. The
results are shown in Fig. 8.
We assess our data uploading method (see in Section III-D1)
by comparing our dynamic foreground uploading mechanism
with background subtraction (w/ BG Sub) to the raw sensory
data uploading mechanism (w/o BG Sub). The results are
shown in Fig. 9.
3) Ofﬂoading Ratio: Ofﬂoading ratio refers to the propor-
tion of outsourced data to the overall computation workload.
We investigate the impact of computation intensity on ofﬂoad-
ing ration under various computing power of AV. The results
are shown in Fig. 10.
4) Completion of RoI Perception: We measure the perfor-
mance of the collaborative computation scheme in terms of
RoI completion ratio, which indicates the fraction of total
sensed area to the entire RoI. When the ratio rises up to 1,
the whole RoI is being perceived and hence the occlusions
in RRoI are eliminated. The higher the completion ratio of
RoI is, the more knowledge about more areas in RoI the
vehicle can obtain. In view of completion ratio, we compare
the collaborative computation with infrastructure computation
(INCO) and vehicle computation (VECO). Under the EDCO
mode, only RSUs are the vehicle’s co-perceivers, while in
AVCO, only nearby AVs are able to assist AV in perceiving
the occlusions. The results are shown in Figs. 11 and 12.
C. Efﬁciency of the Proposed TL-BIFA
Fig. 5 presents the performance of algorithms, including
both the convergence speed and the optimal solutions. It can
be seen that the solutions found by RS are the worst of the
considered algorithms in the beginning of the iterations, this
is because TL-RS generate solutions arbitrarily in feasible
space in the beginning. On the contrary, better solutions are
rendered by TL-FA and TL-BIFA at the same stage. Compared
to TL-FA, TL-RS converges faster at around 150 iterations. In
fact, TL-RS can make relatively good decisions after about 90
iterations. This is owing to the fact that the feasible space in
our collaborative task ofﬂoading approach is not large, while
TL-FA usually requires quite a number of generations and thus


===== PAGE 12 =====
12
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
Computing Resources (GHz)
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
Delay (ms)
Proposed
ACO+NLP
WOA+NLP
FA+B&B
FA+MA
ES
Fig. 6. Algorithm performance with various computing resources.
has a slow convergence speed. In essence, TL-FA is equivalent
to TL-BIFA when ϕ is set to 1, in which case the survival-
of-the-ﬁttest mechanism is not activated. When ϕ is set to
0.75, the ﬁreﬂies are updated towards the top 75 percent of
the population, which prompts ﬁreﬂy population’s evolution.
As ϕ is tuned down to 0.5, the proposed TL-BIFA converges
quickly at iteration 35, and the optimal delay is 0.14 ms. The
results of TL-BIFA with ϕ = 0.5 and 0.25 are similar, ϕ
only has a minor impact on TL-BIFA performance within
the range of [0.25, 0.5]. However, signiﬁcant improvement of
convergence speed can be observed when ϕ jumps from 0.75 to
0.5. According to [20], the total tolerable delay for perception
is 3 ms when the AV is driving at 50 km/h. This optimal
delay is far less than the upper bound delay. The reason
behind is that, with the decrease of ϕ, the screening condition
becomes more stringent and the number of example solutions
is cut down by 25%. Above all, the total completion delay of
perception task is no larger than 0.5 ms. These results validate
the efﬁciency and reliability of the perception task ofﬂoading
scheme with collaborative computation.
Fig. 6 presents the performance of algorithms in the outer
and inner layers. It can be seen that the delay gap between the
proposed algorithm and ES is 0.056 ms with 5 GHz computing
resources, the completion delay achieved by the proposed TL-
BIFA algorithm is close to the optimal bound (e.g., the ES).
The ACO+NLP method achieves the delay of 1.874 ms, which
is greater than TL-BIFA by 386.75%. This is due to the fact
that the evaporation rate in ACO directly impacts the global
search ability, which can lead to reduction of global search
ability and bring the algorithm to local convergence. On the
contrary, the outer-layer FA has the ability to search for better
perception task ofﬂoading by means of elite reproduction. The
delay obtained by FA+B&B is 0.998 ms, which is greater
than TL-BIFA by 159.22%. This is because, the B&B requires
more branching computation for a resource allocation strategy,
which makes it less computationally efﬁcient in compari-
son with the NLP-solver. Given the delay requirements and
ofﬂoading strategy, the NLP-solver can return the optimal
resource allocation strategy in a much less time-consuming
manner.
In addition, the outer-layer algorithm has a greater impact
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
AVs / 100 m Road Segment
0.5
1
1.5
2
Delay (ms)
Proposed
ODA
FQL
ARMAAC
GES
ES
Fig. 7. Resource allocation scheme performance with vehicle density.
on the delay than the inner-layer algorithm. For example, when
the computing resources are 3 GHz, the delay sees a 49.56%
increase under the FA+MA scheme, which is less than that
with WOA+NLP scheme by 118.44%. This is because, the
outer-layer algorithm decides the upper bound of available
resources for each task, while the inner-layer algorithm further
improves the delay performance by allocating the computing
resources among tasks based on ofﬂoading decision made in
the outer layer.
D. Perception Task Ofﬂoading
Fig. 7 illustrates the delay versus the number of vehicles
in every 100 m road segment among the proposed resource
allocation scheme and the baselines. As seen from Fig. 7, the
delay grows as the AV density increases, which veriﬁes the
fact that more surrounding vehicles cause more occlusions,
and hence generate more collaborative computation tasks. The
delay achieved by the proposed algorithm is close to the
optimal bound (e.g., the ES), and is lower than that under the
GES scheme by 16.25% when there are 40 vehicles in every
100 m road segment. This is because, the GES enables reverse
ofﬂoading, bringing extra transmission delay for the dependent
perception tasks. The ARMAAC reduces the delay by 19.84%
compared to the FQL algorithm, since RSUs typically have
more powerful computing capacity than vehicles, and can pro-
cess more computation tasks. Reasonable allocation strategy of
RSUs can speed up the collaborative computation process and
shorten the completion delay. The ODA scheme incurs much
higher delay compared to other algorithms, as it schedules
tasks to reduce the delay without making optimal computing
resource allocation strategy. Overall, the proposed algorithm
makes better resource allocation strategies of both RSUs and
vehicles such that the task completion delay is signiﬁcantly
reduced.
Fig. 8 depicts the impact of input workload (e.g., the
sensory data) on delay and resource utilization under different
ofﬂoading schemes. With the increase of sensory data, task
completion delay grows (see the red curves). The LOCO
obtains the largest delay, as it is prone to be easily affected
by the input workload. The compromise might be uploading


===== PAGE 13 =====
13
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
Sensory Data (MB)
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
Delay (ms)
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Respurce Utilization (%)
Proposed
EDO
LOCO
Proposed
EDO
LOCO
Fig. 8. Delay and resource utilization under different ofﬂoading schemes.
all the data to the edge, i.e., EDO, since the edge server is
equipped with considerable computing power. However, the
transmission delay of EDO can be intolerable due to the
huge amount of the perceived data. As shown in Fig. 8, as
the data size increases, the delay gap between EDO and the
proposed becomes wider. Note that the EDO and proposed
ofﬂoading scheme see a sudden increase in terms of delay
when the sensory data size rises from 80 to 90 MB. This
is because, the performance of ofﬂoading schemes is studied
based on the proposed TL-BIFA algorithm, the randomness
that exists in the outer-layer algorithm does not promise
the consistency or smoothness between solutions [55]. The
proposed task ofﬂoading scheme shows its intelligence in
ﬂexibly choosing co-perceivers among RSUs and AVs, thereby
reducing completion delay to the lowest level. This is also
supported by the results of resource utilization (see the blue
curves in Fig. 8). As the workloads rise, the resource utilization
grows as well. This is because more computing resources
are demanded by growing sensory data. It can be seen that
the utmost utilization of LOCO is around 0.325, and that
of EDO is 0.675, since the constrained resources of AVs
and RSUs limit the maximal utilization under LOCO and
EDO, respectively. The bottleneck of resource utilization is
overcome by our proposed perception task ofﬂoading scheme,
which can achieve a maximal utilization of 100%, meaning
that all computing resources are utilized for processing when
the computing demand rises to a certain level.
Fig. 9 illustrates the total latency of the collaborative com-
putation with respect to input data size, concerning different
uploading methods and AV’s computing power. The uploading
methods include dynamic foreground uploading with back-
ground subtraction (w/ BG Sub, solid line) and raw sensory
data uploading (w/o BG Sub, dotted line). It can be seen that
the completion delay of w/ BG Sub is always lower than that
of w/o BG Sub. This is because the data size of the uploaded
dynamic foreground is smaller compared to the original image
after background subtraction technique. The delay gap under
the two scheme grows with the decrease of AVs’ computing
power. When the input data is 150 MB, fv = 5 GHz, the delay
gap reaches up to 0.12 ms. This is because, as AVs’ computing
resources decline, more and more perception tasks have to
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
Sensory Data (MB)
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
Delay (ms)
fv=1,w/o BG Sub
fv=1,w/ BG Sub
fv=3,w/o BG Sub
fv=3,w/ BG Sub
fv=5,w/o BG Sub
fv=5,w/ BG Sub
Fig. 9. Delay under different data uploading mechanisms.
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
Computation intensity (cycles/bit)
0.55
0.6
0.65
0.7
0.75
0.8
0.85
0.9
0.95
Offloading ratio (%)
fv=1
fv=3
fv=5
Fig. 10. Ofﬂoading ratio of power-varied AVs with computation workload.
seek computing support from RSUs, meaning that more data
need to be transmitted. By exploiting background separation
technique, transmission delay is signiﬁcantly reduced. For ex-
ample, when input data is 100 MB and fv = 5 GHz, the delay
is cut down by 22.2%. Besides, the delay is more affected by
uploading method when fv increases, which veriﬁes the fact
that fewer tasks need to be ofﬂoaded when AVs have ample
computing power.
Fig. 10 depicts the impact of computation intensity on
ofﬂoading ratio, which is the proportion of ofﬂoaded data size
to overall data size. The higher ofﬂoading ratio is, the heavier
workload is ofﬂoaded to the RSU. It can be observed that
the ofﬂoading ratio rises with the increase of computation
intensity, as RSUs often have more computing resources.
Ofﬂoading ratio with fv = 1 GHz stays high above 70%. This
is because the computing power of AVs is too low to support
computationally intensive perception tasks. When fv = 5 GHz,
AVs can deal with more computation workload locally without
task ofﬂoading.
E. Collaborative Computation
Fig. 11 shows the completion of RoI under V2I computation
(INCO) mode and collaborative (i.e., V2V+V2I) computation
architecture. In INCO scheme, the AV can only collaborate


===== PAGE 14 =====
14
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
RoI Completion (%)
RSU Coverage (%)
INCO
Proposed
Fig. 11. RoI completion under V2I computation scheme.
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
0.002
0.003
0.004
0.005
0.006
RoI Completion (%)
Vehicle Density (AVs/m2)
VECO
Proposed
Fig. 12. RoI completion under V2V computation scheme.
with RSUs to perform perception task, while in collaborative
computation, both nearby AVs and RSUs participate in per-
ception. It can be seen that the RoI completion of collaborative
computation mechanism is stabilized at 100%, implying that it
is impervious to the RSU’s coverage ratio in RoI. No matter
how low the coverage ratio is, the proposed architecture is
able to explore both V2V and V2I links. Even if RoI is
visible to none of the RSUs, there are always nearby AVs
capable of perceiving the environment. Contrarily, in INCO,
the completion ratio is proportional to the RSU’s sensing area
in RoI. When the RSU covers the whole RoI, the completion
ratio rises up to 1. Instead, if all of the RoI is not under the
coverage range of RSUs, the completion ratio is as low as
0.586. This is because, there are 58.6% of RoI can still be
perceived by v0 itself without collaboration, while the rest
areas (e.g., occlusions) remain unobserved.
The performance of V2V computation (VECO) system is
shown in Fig. 12. With 0.002 AV density, the RoI completion
ratio is as low as 0.6 under the VECO scheme. The reason
is that, the number of available AVs in the vicinity is small,
there are seldom AVs to collaborate with. With more AVs
surrounding v0, the number of accessible co-perceivers grows,
then more AVs help to perceive RoI, and the completion rate
increases to an utmost level. However, once the vehicle density
exceeds a certain value (i.e., around 0.004 AV s/m2 in our
case), completion rate drops immediately. The reason is that,
more occlusions on the rear region of the AV’s RoI are caused
by the increasing AVs, which are unperceivable to the front-
camera equipped AVs. The performance of VECO relies on
the sensing range of nearby AVs. When the AVs are densely-
distributed, the unsupervised occlusions in VECO unveil the
ﬂaw of this architecture. Opposite to the VECO scheme, the
completion performance stabilizes at 100%, which ensures the
reliability of collaborative computation.
TABLE II
PERCEPTION TASK OFFLOADING PERFORMANCE UNDER VARIOUS
COMPUTING PLATFORMS. PLT, CP AND CMPL ARE SHORT FOR
COMPUTING PLATFORM, COMPUTING POWER AND ROI COMPLETION
RATIO, RESPECTIVELY.
PLT
CP (TOPS)
FA
NLP-Solver
Delay (ms) ↓
CMPL (%) ↑
MQ4
2.5
×
×
16.39
18.82
×
✓
13.21
26.48
✓
×
12.26
29.67
✓
✓
10.28
35.73
MQ5
24
×
×
9.64
42.59
×
✓
7.13
49.73
✓
×
6.45
58.94
✓
✓
5.62
69.78
NVDX
30
×
×
6.74
60.32
×
✓
5.25
74.97
✓
×
3.98
82.57
✓
✓
2.37
88.32
TSLHW
144
×
×
2.18
95.09
×
✓
1.75
98.43
✓
×
1.04
99.47
✓
✓
0.49
100.00
HWNDC
400
×
×
0.35
100.00
×
✓
0.27
100.00
✓
×
0.19
100.00
✓
✓
0.14
100.00
F. The Performance under Various Computing Platforms
Table II presents the completion delay and RoI completion
ratio (CMPL) under different computing platforms (PLT).
The level of autonomous driving is inseparable from the
computing power (CP) of the chip [56]. Mobileye Q4 (MQ4)
and Q5 (MQ5) provide 2.5 and 24 TOPS of computing power,
respectively [57], for L1-L2 level automatic driving. NVIDIA
Xavier processor delivers 30 TOPS for L3 autonomous driving.
The computer of Tesla HW3.0 provides 144 TOPS computing
power, aiming at autonomous levels 4 and 5. Huawei MDC
810 provides a maximum of 400 TOPS, which can support
L4 autonomous driving. We evaluate the delay and RoI com-
pletion performance on the computing platforms with FA and
NLP-solver working separately and jointly. While the FA and
NLP-solver are not used, they are replaced by random of-
ﬂoading scheme and proportional resource allocation strategy,
respectively. The perception delay requirement is set as 3 ms.
In Table II, as the computing power decreases, the delay
rises, and the RoI completion ratio drops. For example, the
delay is increased by 43.03%, and the RoI completion ratio is
reduced by 17.73% when neither the FA nor the NLP-solver
is adopted, and the computing power drops from 30 TOPS
to 24 TOPS. This is because the computation tasks exceeding
the tolerable perception delay are dropped, the vehicle hence
does not receive the related occlusion information, and the
RoI completion performance is degraded. When the computing
power rises to 144 TOPS, the delay is lower than 0.5 ms, and
the completion ratio remains at 100% when both of the algo-
rithms are adopted. This indicates that the computing power of
vehicle’s onboard computing platform has a signiﬁcant impact
of task completion delay. Many of the vehicles’ perception
tasks can be handled locally and efﬁciently without seeking
task ofﬂoading when the computing power grows. When the
computing power increases to 400 TOPS, the delay is reduced
to 0.14 ms under the proposed scheme. Compared to the
resource allocation scheme, the task ofﬂoading algorithm has
a larger impact on system performance. For example, FA


===== PAGE 15 =====
15
brings a 45.71% delay reduction when used alone, which
is greater than that brought by NLP-solver by 22.85%. The
reason is that, the outer-layer algorithm schedules where the
tasks are executed, and hence determines the maximum value
of available resources each task can obtain, while the inner-
algorithm further improves the delay performance on the basis
of ofﬂoading strategy made by the outer-layer algorithm.
VII. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we have developed a new framework of
perception task ofﬂoading framework with collaborative com-
putation for autonomous driving. By fully considering the
vehicle mobility and task dependency, we formulate a joint
problem of collaborative task assignment, ofﬂoading and
resource allocation for minimizing task completion delay.
The joint problem is formulated as MINLP, and a two-layer
optimization method is presented. In the outer layer, BIFA
is used to choose co-perceivers among RSUs and AVs and to
ofﬂoad collaborative tasks for AVs. In the inner layer, the NLP
solver is applied to ﬁnd the best resource allocation decision
for RSUs. Experimental results demonstrate the superiority
of our proposed method in raising the autonomous driving
system’s efﬁciency, safety and reliability.
In the future, we will devote our efforts in adapting collab-
orative task ofﬂoading system to more complex trafﬁc roads
like intersections and ramps. Besides, we will evaluate its
performance by building prototypes in real-world automotive
environments.
APPENDIX
A. Proof of Lemma 2
According to [41], if either the objective function or any
inequality constraint in P0 is non-convex, then we say that
P0 is a non-convex MINLP. Here we take the inequality in
constraint (17) and prove its non-convexity. For the conve-
nience of expression, we deﬁne function
c(µvi) =
LM
xiµvifuj + (1 −xi) fvi
−τ,
(43)
so that constraint (17) can be written as c(µvi) ≤0. Assume
the binary viable xi is known, the ﬁrst order derivative of
c(µvi) is calculated as
c′ (µvi) =
−LMxiµvifuj

xiµvifuj + (1 −xi) fvi
2 ,
(44)
and the second derivative is
C′′ (µvi) = LMxi

xiµvifuj + (1 −xi) fvi

×
2xif 2
uj −xiµvifuj + (xi −1) fvi

xiµvifuj + (1 −xi) fvi
4
.
(45)
When xi is set as 1, we have
C′′ (µvi)|xi=1 =
−LMµvifuj

2f 2
uj −1

µvif 4uj
.
(46)
It can be seen that C′′ (µvi)|xi=1 is less than 0 when 2f 2
uj −
1 > 0, i.e., fuj > 0.71. The non-convex property of the
inequality constraint (17) is proved, and hence problem P0
is a non-convex MINLP. This completes the proof.
REFERENCES
[1] S. Feng, X. Yan, H. Sun, Y. Feng, and H. X. Liu, “Intelligent driving
intelligence test for autonomous vehicles with naturalistic and adversar-
ial environment,” Nature Communications, vol. 12, no. 1, p. 748, Feb.
2021.
[2] D. Wang, W. Fu, Q. Song, and J. Zhou, “Potential risk assessment for
safe driving of autonomous vehicles under occluded vision,” Scientiﬁc
Reports, vol. 12, no. 1, p. 4981, Mar. 2022.
[3] L. Claussmann, M. Revilloud, D. Gruyer, and S. Glaser, “A review of
motion planning for highway autonomous driving,” IEEE Transactions
on Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol. 21, no. 5, pp. 1826–1848,
May 2020.
[4] D. Omeiza, H. Webb, M. Jirotka, and L. Kunze, “Explanations in
autonomous driving: A survey,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Trans-
portation Systems, vol. 23, no. 8, pp. 10 142–10 162, Aug. 2022.
[5] S. Sridhar and A. Eskandarian, “Cooperative perception in autonomous
ground vehicles using a mobile-robot testbed,” IET Intelligent Transport
Systems, vol. 13, no. 10, pp. 1545–1556, July 2019.
[6] A. Guizar, V. Mannoni, F. Poli, B. Denis, and V. Berg, “Lte-v2x perfor-
mance evaluation for cooperative collision avoidance (coca) systems,”
in IEEE 92nd Vehicular Technology Conference (VTC), Victoria, BC,
Canada, Nov. 2020.
[7] Y. Qi, Y. Zhou, Y.-F. Liu, L. Liu, and Z. Pan, “Trafﬁc-aware task
ofﬂoading based on convergence of communication and sensing in
vehicular edge computing,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 8,
no. 24, pp. 17 762–17 777, May 2021.
[8] M. Cui, S. Zhong, B. Li, X. Chen, and K. Huang, “Ofﬂoading au-
tonomous driving services via edge computing,” IEEE Internet of Things
Journal, vol. 7, no. 10, pp. 10 535–10 547, Oct. 2020.
[9] H. Du, S. Leng, K. Zhang, and L. Zhou, “Cooperative sensing and
task ofﬂoading for autonomous platoons,” in GLOBECOM-IEEE Global
Communications Conference, Taipei, Taiwan, China, Jan. 2020.
[10] B. Yang, X. Cao, K. Xiong, C. Yuen, Y. L. Guan, S. Leng, L. Qian, and
Z. Han, “Edge intelligence for autonomous driving in 6g wireless sys-
tem: Design challenges and solutions,” IEEE Wireless Communications,
vol. 28, no. 2, pp. 40–47, Apr. 2021.
[11] S. Kato, E. Takeuchi, Y. Ishiguro, Y. Ninomiya, K. Takeda, and
T. Hamada, “An open approach to autonomous vehicles,” IEEE Micro,
vol. 35, no. 6, pp. 60–68, Dec. 2015.
[12] S.-C. Lin, Y. Zhang, C.-H. Hsu, M. Skach, M. E. Haque, L. Tang,
and J. Mars, “The architectural implications of autonomous driving:
Constraints and acceleration,” SIGPLAN Not., vol. 53, no. 2, p. 751–766,
Mar. 2018.
[13] Mobileye, “Enabling Autonomous,” 2017, htp://www.mobileye.com/
future-of-mobility/mobileye-enabling-autonomous.
[14] Udacity, “An Open Source Self-Driving Car,” 2017, htps://www.udacity.
com/self-driving-car.
[15] M. Naumann, H. Konigshof, M. Lauer, and C. Stiller, “Safe but
not overcautious motion planning under occlusions and limited sensor
range,” in IEEE Intelligent Vehicles Symposium (IV), Paris, France, Jun.
2019.
[16] M. Schratter, M. Bouton, M. J. Kochenderfer, and D. Watzenig, “Pedes-
trian collision avoidance system for scenarios with occlusions,” in IEEE
Intelligent Vehicles Symposium (IV), Paris, France, Jun. 2019.
[17] C. Zhang, F. Steinhauser, G. Hinz, and A. Knoll, “Improved occlusion
scenario coverage with a pomdp-based behavior planner for autonomous
urban driving,” in IEEE International Intelligent Transportation Systems
Conference (ITSC), Indianapolis, IN, Sep. 2021.
[18] P. Ghorai, A. Eskandarian, Y.-K. Kim, and G. Mehr, “State estimation
and motion prediction of vehicles and vulnerable road users for cooper-
ative autonomous driving: A survey,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent
Transportation Systems, pp. 1–20, Apr. 2022.
[19] Y. Hui, X. Ma, Z. Su, N. Cheng, Z. Yin, T. H. Luan, and Y. Chen,
“Collaboration as a service: Digital twins enabled collaborative and
distributed autonomous driving,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, pp.
1–13, Mar. 2022.
[20] Z. Ning, P. Dong, M. Wen, X. Wang, L. Guo, R. Y. K. Kwok, and H. V.
Poor, “5g-enabled uav-to-community ofﬂoading: Joint trajectory design
and task scheduling,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communica-
tions, vol. 39, no. 11, pp. 3306–3320, Jun. 2021.
[21] Q. Liu, T. Han, J. L. Xie, and B. Kim, “Livemap: Real-time dynamic
map in automotive edge computing,” in INFOCOM - IEEE Conference
on Computer Communications, Vancouver, BC, Canada, May 2021.
[22] Y. Qi, Y. Zhou, Z. Pan, L. Liu, and J. Shi, “Crowd-sensing assisted
vehicular distributed computing for hd map update,” in ICC - IEEE


===== PAGE 16 =====
16
International Conference on Communications, Montreal, QC, Canada,
Jun. 2021.
[23] B. Yang, X. Cao, X. Li, C. Yuen, and L. Qian, “Lessons learned
from accident of autonomous vehicle testing: An edge learning-aided
ofﬂoading framework,” IEEE Wireless Communications Letters, vol. 9,
no. 8, pp. 1182–1186, Aug. 2020.
[24] S. Liu, L. Liu, J. Tang, B. Yu, Y. Wang, and W. Shi, “Edge computing
for autonomous driving: Opportunities and challenges,” Proceedings of
the IEEE, vol. 107, no. 8, pp. 1697–1716, Jun. 2019.
[25] J. Du, F. R. Yu, X. Chu, J. Feng, and G. Lu, “Computation ofﬂoading
and resource allocation in vehicular networks based on dual-side cost
minimization,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 68,
no. 2, pp. 1079–1092, 2019.
[26] W. Feng, N. Zhang, S. Li, S. Lin, R. Ning, S. Yang, and Y. Gao, “Latency
minimization of reverse ofﬂoading in vehicular edge computing,” IEEE
Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 71, no. 5, pp. 5343–5357,
May 2022.
[27] M. Liu and Y. Liu, “Price-Based Distributed Ofﬂoading for Mobile-Edge
Computing With Computation Capacity Constraints,” IEEE Wireless
Communications Letters, vol. 7, no. 3, pp. 420–423, Jun. 2018.
[28] Y. Huang, Y. Liu, and F. Chen, “NOMA-Aided Mobile Edge Computing
via User Cooperation,” IEEE Transactions on Communications, vol. 68,
no. 4, pp. 2221–2235, Apr. 2020.
[29] B. Dai, F. Xu, Y. Cao, and Y. Xu, “Hybrid sensing data fusion of co-
operative perception for autonomous driving with augmented vehicular
reality,” IEEE Systems Journal, vol. 15, no. 1, pp. 1413–1422, Mar.
2021.
[30] Y. Liu, S. Wang, Q. Zhao, S. Du, A. Zhou, X. Ma, and F. Yang,
“Dependency-aware task scheduling in vehicular edge computing,” IEEE
Internet of Things Journal, vol. 7, no. 6, pp. 4961–4971, 2020.
[31] W. Mao, O. U. Akgul, A. Mehrabi, B. Cho, Y. Xiao, and A. Yl¨a-J¨a¨aski,
“Data-Driven Capacity Planning for Vehicular Fog Computing,” IEEE
Internet of Things Journal, vol. 9, no. 15, pp. 13 179–13 194, Aug. 2022.
[32] L. Liu, M. Zhao, M. Yu, M. A. Jan, D. Lan, and A. Taherkordi,
“Mobility-aware multi-hop task ofﬂoading for autonomous driving in
vehicular edge computing and networks,” IEEE Transactions on Intelli-
gent Transportation Systems, pp. 1–14, Jan. 2022.
[33] T. S. Etsi, “Systems (its); vehicular communications; basic set of
applications; part 2: Speciﬁcation of cooperative awareness basic
service, v1.4.1, document etsi en 302 637- 2, nat. highway trafﬁc
safety
admin.,
washington,
dc,
usa,”
2019.
[Online].
Available:
https://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi en/302600
[34] K. Sung, K. Min, and J. Choi, “Driving information logger with in-
vehicle communication for autonomous vehicle research,” in 20th Inter-
national Conference on Advanced Communication Technology (ICACT),
Chuncheon, Korea (South), Feb. 2018.
[35] Y. Wang, G. de Veciana, T. Shimizu, and H. Lu, “Deployment and
performance of infrastructure to assist vehicular collaborative sensing,”
in IEEE 87th Vehicular Technology Conference (VTC Spring), Porto,
Portugal, Jun. 2018.
[36] H. A. Ignatious, Hesham-El-Sayed, and M. Khan, “An overview of
sensors in autonomous vehicles,” Procedia Computer Science, vol. 198,
pp. 736–741, Dec. 2021.
[37] H. Hu, Z. Liu, S. Chitlangia, A. Agnihotri, and D. Zhao, “Investigating
the impact of multi-lidar placement on object detection for autonomous
driving,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), June 2022, pp. 2550–2559.
[38] F. Bounini, D. Gingras, V. Lapointe, and H. Pollart, “Autonomous
vehicle and real time road lanes detection and tracking,” in IEEE Vehicle
Power and Propulsion Conference (VPPC), Montreal, QC, Canada, Oct.
2015.
[39] S. Markowitz, C. Snyder, Y. C. Eldar, and M. N. Do, “Multimodal
unrolled robust pca for background foreground separation,” Aug. 2021.
[40] C. H. Papadimitriou, “On the complexity of integer programming,” J.
ACM, vol. 28, no. 4, p. 765–768, Oct. 1981.
[41] P. Belotti, C. Kirches, S. Leyffer, J. Linderoth, J. Luedtke, and A. Ma-
hajan, “Mixed-integer nonlinear optimization,” Acta Numerica, vol. 22,
pp. 2–3, May 2013.
[42] X.-S. Yang, Cuckoo Search and Fireﬂy Algorithm: Overview and
Analysis, Cham, 01 2014, vol. 516, pp. 1–26. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-02141-6 1
[43] E. Zadobrischi, M. Dimian, and M. Negru, “The utility of dsrc and
v2x in road safety applications and intelligent parking: Similarities,
differences, and the future of vehicular communication,” Sensors (Basel,
Switzerland), vol. 21, no. 21, pp. 1–38, Oct. 2021.
[44] K. Wang, Y. Zhou, Z. Liu, Z. Shao, X. Luo, and Y. Yang, “Online task
scheduling and resource allocation for intelligent noma-based industrial
internet of things,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications,
vol. 38, no. 5, pp. 803–815, Mar. 2020.
[45] N. Cheng, F. Lyu, W. Quan, C. Zhou, H. He, W. Shi, and X. Shen,
“Space/aerial-assisted computing ofﬂoading for iot applications: A
learning-based approach,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Commu-
nications, vol. 37, no. 5, pp. 1117–1129, Mar. 2019.
[46] Y. Luo, “Time constraints and fault tolerance in autonomous driving
systems,” Master’s thesis, EECS Department, University of California,
Berkeley, May 2019.
[47] T. Cai, Z. Yang, Y. Chen, W. Chen, Z. Zheng, Y. Yu, and H.-N.
Dai, “Cooperative data sensing and computation ofﬂoading in uav-
assisted crowdsensing with multi-agent deep reinforcement learning,”
IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering, pp. 1–15, Oct.
2021.
[48] M. Hofbauer, C. B. Kuhn, J. Meng, G. Petrovic, and E. Steinbach,
“Multi-view region of interest prediction for autonomous driving using
semi-supervised labeling,” in IEEE 23rd International Conference on
Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITSC), Rhodes, Greece, Sep. 2020.
[49] T.-H. Wang, S. Manivasagam, M. Liang, B. Yang, W. Zeng, and R. Urta-
sun, “V2vnet: Vehicle-to-vehicle communication for joint perception and
prediction,” in Computer Vision – ECCV 2020, A. Vedaldi, H. Bischof,
T. Brox, and J.-M. Frahm, Eds.
Cham: Springer International Publish-
ing, Aug. 2020, pp. 605–621.
[50] A. Abbas, A. Raza, F. Aadil, and M. Maqsood, “Meta-heuristic-based
ofﬂoading task optimization in mobile edge computing,” International
Journal of Distributed Sensor Networks, vol. 17, no. 6, pp. 1–11, Jun.
2021.
[51] Z. Wang and R. Hou, “Joint caching and computing resource allocation
for task ofﬂoading in vehicular networks,” IET Communications, vol. 14,
no. 21, pp. 3820–3827, Oct. 2020.
[52] W. Zhou, W. Fang, Y. Li, B. Yuan, Y. Li, and T. Wang, “Markov
approximation for task ofﬂoading and computation scaling in mobile
edge computing,” Mobile Information Systems, vol. 2019, pp. 1–12, Jan.
2019.
[53] K. Xiong, S. Leng, C. Huang, C. Yuen, and Y. L. Guan, “Intelligent task
ofﬂoading for heterogeneous v2x communications,” IEEE Transactions
on Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol. 22, no. 4, pp. 2226–2238,
2021.
[54] Z. Gao, L. Yang, and Y. Dai, “Large-scale computation ofﬂoading using
a multi-agent reinforcement learning in heterogeneous multi-access edge
computing,” IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, pp. 1–18, Jan.
2022.
[55] O. Zedadra, A. Guerrieri, and H. Seridi, “Lfa: A leacute;vy walk and
ﬁreﬂy-based search algorithm: Application to multi-target search and
multi-robot foraging,” Big Data and Cognitive Computing, vol. 6, no. 1,
pp. 1–15, Feb. 2022.
[56] H. Ibn-Khedher, M. Laroui, M. B. Mabrouk, H. Moungla, H. Aﬁﬁ, A. N.
Oleari, and A. E. Kamal, “Edge computing assisted autonomous driving
using artiﬁcial intelligence,” in International Wireless Communications
and Mobile Computing (IWCMC), Harbin City, China, Jul. 2021, pp.
254–259.
[57] R. Castellano, “Intel’s Mobileye: Strong Headwinds From Competitor
SoCs, Particularly In China,” 2021, https://seekingalpha.com/article/
4474916-intel-mobileye-strong-headwinds-china-soc-competitors.
Zhu Xiao (M’12-SM’19) received the M.S. and
Ph.D. degrees in communication and information
systems from Xidian University, China, in 2007 and
2009, respectively. From 2010 to 2012, he was a
Research Fellow with the Department of Computer
Science and Technology, University of Bedfordshire,
U.K.
He is currently an Associate Professor with the
College of Computer Science and Electronic En-
gineering, Hunan University, China. His research
interests include wireless localization, Internet of
Vehicles and intelligent transportation systems. He is a senior member of the
IEEE and serving as an Associated Editor for IEEE Transactions on Intelligent
Transportation Systems.


===== PAGE 17 =====
17
Jinmei Shu received her BS degree in communi-
cation engineering from Jishou University, Jishou,
China, in 2021. She is currently working toward
the MS degree in information and communication
engineering at Hunan University, Changsha, China.
Her current research interests include connected and
autonomous vehicles and mobile edge computing.
Hongbo Jiang (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
Ph.D. degree from Case Western Reserve University
in 2008. He is currently a Full Professor with the
College of Computer Science and Electronic En-
gineering, Hunan University. He ever was a Pro-
fessor with the Huazhong University of Science
and Technology. His research concerns computer
networking, especially algorithms and protocols for
wireless and mobile networks. He was the Editor
of IEEE/ACM TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK-
ING, the Associate Editor for IEEE TRANSAC-
TIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, and the Associate Technical Editor for
IEEE Communications Magazine. He is an Elected Member of Academia
Europaea, Fellow of IET, Fellow of BCS, and Fellow of AAIA.
Geyong Min is a Professor of High Performance
Computing and Networking in the Department of
Computer Science within the College of Engineer-
ing, Mathematics and Physical Sciences at the Uni-
versity of Exeter, United Kingdom. He received the
PhD degree in Computing Science from the Univer-
sity of Glasgow, United Kingdom, in 2003, and the
B.Sc. degree in Computer Science from Huazhong
University of Science and Technology, China, in
1995. His research interests include Future Inter-
net, Computer Networks, Wireless Communications,
Multimedia Systems, Information Security, High Performance Computing,
Ubiquitous Computing, Modelling and Performance Engineering.
Hongyang
Chen
(M’10-SM’16)
received
the
B.S. degree from Southwest Jiaotong University,
Chengdu, China, in 2003, the M.S, degree from
the Institute of Mobile Communications, Southwest
Jiaotong University, Chengdu, China, in 2006, and
the Ph.D. degree from the University of Tokyo,
in 2011. From 2004 to 2006, he was a Research
Assistant with the Institute of Computing Technol-
ogy, Chinese Academy of Science. In 2009, he
was a Visiting Researcher with the UCLA Adaptive
Systems Laboratory, University of California Los
Angeles. From April 2011 to June 2020, He worked as a Researcher with
Fujitsu Ltd, Japan.
He is currently a Principal Investigator/Senior Research Scientist with
Zhejiang Lab, China. He has authored or coauthored more than 80 referred
journal and conference papers. He has granted/ﬁlled more than 50 PCT
patents. He was the Editor for IEEE TRANSACTION ON WIRELESS COM-
MUNICATIONS, and the Associate Editor for IEEE COMMUNICATIONS
LETTERS. His research interests include data-driven intelligent networking
and system, machine learning, localization and location based big data, B5G,
statistical signal processing.
Zhu Han (S’01-M’04-SM’09-F’14) received the
B.S. degree in electronic engineering from Tsinghua
University, in 1997, and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees
in electrical and computer engineering from the
University of Maryland, College Park, in 1999 and
2003, respectively.
From 2000 to 2002, he was an R&D Engineer of
JDSU, Germantown, Maryland. From 2003 to 2006,
he was a Research Associate at the University of
Maryland. From 2006 to 2008, he was an assistant
professor at Boise State University, Idaho. Currently,
he is a John and Rebecca Moores Professor in the Electrical and Computer
Engineering Department as well as in the Computer Science Department at the
University of Houston, Texas. His research interests include wireless resource
allocation and management, wireless communications and networking, game
theory, big data analysis, security, and smart grid. Dr. Han received an
NSF Career Award in 2010, the Fred W. Ellersick Prize of the IEEE
Communication Society in 2011, the EURASIP Best Paper Award for the
Journal on Advances in Signal Processing in 2015, IEEE Leonard G. Abraham
Prize in the ﬁeld of Communications Systems (best paper award in IEEE
JSAC) in 2016, and several best paper awards in IEEE conferences. Dr. Han
was an IEEE Communications Society Distinguished Lecturer from 2015-
2018, AAAS fellow since 2019, and ACM distinguished Member since 2019.
Dr. Han is a 1% highly cited researcher since 2017 according to Web of
Science. Dr. Han is also the winner of the 2021 IEEE Kiyo Tomiyasu
Award, for outstanding early to mid-career contributions to technologies
holding the promise of innovative applications, with the following citation:
“for contributions to game theory and distributed management of autonomous
communication networks.”
